let us dive into the very first question
this one comes from Louis Christine IM
being this is from the connect inbox do
you follow any morning routine if so
what does your morning routine look like
and what is your thought process behind
doing each of these actions
okay here it goes first of all your
morning routine starts the night before
so go to bed early now I used to say
that like a religion I was in bed by 9
pm but now my schedule has gotten a
little out of whack we've got a new
piece of content
um called real impact by the way for
anybody that's into film and TV and the
mindset that you can glean from that you
can go to youtube.com forward slash
impact Theory Studios and check that out
but that routinely now has me seeing
movies at far past my bedtime but I try
to go to bed as close to nine as humanly
possible every night save for the
weekends
and in that I sleep without an alarm so
I wake up when I wake up the reason that
I do that is because I want to get as
much sleep as I need so I'm all about
cognitive optimization so I'm not
somebody who sets the alarm to make sure
that I'm up at four in the morning but
when I wake up at four in the morning
I'm a very happy camper I usually get it
used to be between five and six I'm now
getting between seven and eight I have
no idea why a change completely randomly
and as far as I can tell without reason
uh but I wake up when I wake up I give
myself 10 minutes to get out of bed and
I do that because I'm lazy and my
inclination is to lay in bed so I need a
bright line that says I get out of bed
immediately without wasting time so I'm
out of bed and out of bed in 10 minutes
or less I put my gym clothes next to my
bed so that the easiest answer is to put
my gym clothes on in fact I'd have to
make a conscious choice not to which
thusly would trigger
um in me a lot of
um
conflict emotionally because it is my
identity to immediately go to the gym to
work out again partly for cognitive
optimization and then also for longevity
for health and for Aesthetics but
working out I think is incredibly
important and I actually think that for
anybody that wants to achieve something
extraordinary in their life that the
third thing that you need to focus on is
mindset the first two are diet and
exercise followed by mindset so I hit
the gym first and foremost immediately
after the gym I meditate and the reason
that I do that is because I want to
practice going from the sympathetic
nervous system which is fight or flight
which you're triggering in the gym
through the heavy exertion your heart
rate is up your breathing is shallow and
rapid and the idea is to very quickly
switch over into the parasympathetic
nervous system where you're getting into
rest and digest where you're calming all
of that down you're slowing your breath
your diaphragm breathing in through the
nose out through the mouth and really
calming everything down and I think
practicing that transition is very
important and so that's why I do them
back to back but then on top of that
just meditating for any reason I think
is really important and doing that gets
you into a calm and creative state which
is where all of your anxiety all of your
stress is dropped down to zero and I
also think that we think on multiple
levels you've got the thinking that is
truly you hear the voice and the words
articulated in your mind but you also
have below that where you have the
notion without the
um actual words and then I think either
below that or beside that you also have
just sort of an emotional level of
thinking where you're feeling whatever
is going on and I think that you want to
quiet all of those down so you can truly
get into that calm creative state and I
really feel the difference in my brain
which is why I think that meditating is
insanely important and I think much like
fasting it's really where you want to
not be taxing
um your metabolic processes and and I
it's not that I think there are a lot of
studies out there that show that doing
that increases the efficiency of your
mitochondria and a whole host of other
benefits including insulin sensitivity
and on and on I think that there's a
very similar effect that happens when
you meditate where you're literally
fasting from thought or at least you're
trying to get out of thought and into
that calm creative space as for as much
of the time you're meditating as
possible you're going to find that your
mind wanders it's just what the Mind
does but you really can quiet it down
quiet it down I think in quieting it
down there is some effect I don't know
what the actual neurological effect is
but the effects of that what you feel is
a deep sense of calm relaxation and it's
incredibly powerful for them having your
most potent ideas and biggest
breakthroughs after I do that then I do
what I call thinkitating which is
leveraging that state to then process
through in a very conscious way all of
the things that I'm dealing with in my
business or my life and I won't go into
too much detail and think dating but
basically allow yourself to actually
think we're in meditation trying not to
and then after that I read which I think
is incredibly important I think you
should always be learning I think that's
really really important to having great
ideas to solving problems whatever it is
to getting better uh you need to just
always always always be learning and
then after that I have a list called
important things and I go through my
important things list and that is
um literally just a list of the most
important things I could be doing for my
business and the reason that I keep a
list is because I don't ever want to
waste time in a transitional moment
trying to think of what I should be
doing or focusing on I want that list
also Studies have shown that journaling
before you go to bed simply by listing
the things you need to do allows you to
sleep and so this may be one of the
reasons that I have such an easy time
falling asleep is I know everything that
I should be working on everything that
I've thought about is not only written
down it's in priority order and so there
isn't a cycle of my brain like remember
remember which I think is part of what
keeps people awake so there you have it
that's my morning routine after that
then I get ready and um I often read by
the way because I do audible books while
I'm getting ready I read through making
my first meal which comes after all of
that
and there you have it that's my morning
routine am I think behind it all right
next question is from Daniel Brees hi
Tom I go to bed at nine my man alarm at
5 30 shame on you it's still not enough
sleep get more I want to wake up without
the alarm any tips on how to feel rested
with less sleep I have absolutely no
tips on how to feel rested with less
sleep my only tip is how to feel rested
which is to get as much sleep as you
need now while it's really annoying to
me that right now I'm sleeping seven and
eight hours versus my normal five and
six it is what I have to do to be
cognitively optimized and therefore I do
it I won't say that I don't complain as
you hear me doing right now but I think
that it the priority remains being
cognitively optimized not being tired I
think being tired is a unique form of
torture that I absolutely despise and to
get the most out of my day to
make the most of whatever hours I'm
awake I would rather be super sharp and
well rested than try to wake up really
early be tired be slow uh be miserable
and quite frankly not have the ideas
coming from my subconscious which I find
is slowed or even muted if I'm too tired
so while there are rare occasions where
I will set an alarm I wake up to an
alarm certainly less than 10 times a
year so a year a year so if you can do
what I've done without setting alarm
more than 10 times then I just truly
truly go to bed early sleep as much as
you need now what you're probably going
to find is in the first couple months
you're going to sleep a lot you might be
sleeping eight to ten hours because
you've been so sleep deprived but sleep
is just incredibly incredibly important
I read a study this is so fascinating
your brain reduces in size so think of
it as as inflammation and then reducing
that inflammation not actually you know
growing and shrinking but it it reduces
in size which allows it to flush out I'm
going to use the word toxin I hate that
word but it allows it to flush the
system clear of things that it wants to
get out of the brain and the only way
that it can do that is by reducing the
inflammation which it only does when you
sleep so that's but one of the many
things that they're beginning to uncover
is incredibly potent and Powerful about
sleep in terms of its relationship to
the brain so I just cannot stress enough
get whatever sleep you need suck it up
if you have to start going to bed at
eight in order to make it to work on
time do it if you have to go to bed at
seven do it and I know people always
push back I need to unwind all of that
no if you're watching me I make the
assumption that what you need is to
become great it is to really actuate and
actualize all of the potential that you
have latent within you and that you're
trying to do something extraordinary
with your life and you're trying to do
that by the way because it is a thing
that makes you feel most alive not
because there's some moral imperative to
do so so
that's what you need to do and the only
way that you're going to be able to get
that is to get your sleep so
then beyond that I will say eat right
eating is massive I don't think that
exercise gives me more energy unless I
take a day off so if I've been working
out like a demon and I'm in great shape
and then I take a day off on the day off
I actually have more energy other people
say that they feel more energized from
working out that just has not been my
experience in 15 years of working out so
I won't propagate that myth at least for
me my wife on the other hand does feel
more energized so hey there you have it
but eating right exercising and then
getting your thoughts in the right place
that and then getting your sleep that's
the only way that I know how to feel
energized all right next question is
from Ian Grigsby Tom I am currently a
PhD math student
that sounds hard uh at Baylor
congratulations this is the first time
I've tried to train my folks on One
Thing versus being a jack of all trades
it's as with anything good tough any
advice so yes so my advice is regardless
of whether something is hard or not
because even something that comes easily
to you let's say that mathematics comes
easily to you or I'll use my example so
for me
um speaking was always the thing that I
got early wins in so even when I was
young I was able to talk fairly rapidly
But ultimately you're getting to the
point where you've maxed out your
natural ability and now you're trying to
push it you're trying to go beyond and
that got hard as hell for me and I spent
a lot of hours practicing practicing
always at the edge of my competence
which the real danger being at the edge
of your competence if you don't have a
growth mindset is it makes you feel
badly about yourself which makes you
want to go into the psychological immune
system and begin to protect yourself
from that so as you're doing math
problems that are hard for you and
really start making you feel stupid
which is exactly what happens you're
going to want to back off you're going
to want to go into places that you're
better stronger that you have you're
dipping into your more natural talents
and you're not pushing those to the edge
of your abilities but that's the way to
keep your life small that is not the way
to become extraordinary so you really
just have to admit this is going to be
hard this is going to make me feel
stupid this is going to make me feel
badly about myself but on a long enough
timeline if I keep doing this if I keep
practicing I keep pushing myself what
I'm doing is extending
extending that region of where you start
to feel stupid so it may you know right
now it's maybe something that's
relatively basic for an advanced
mathematician but five years from now 10
years from now that begins to extend
really far and your mathematics becomes
incredibly usable and potent in your
life and you're able to do things that
other people are not able to do and when
you look back and this is one of the few
times that I encourage people to really
look back on their life when you look
back at where you were like six months
ago it's not often that exciting
continuing to push that continuing to
drive forward continuing to live at that
edge and soothe yourself with the
identity and building Pride around being
a learner instead of being smart good
whatever that you will just go so far
and it will be so impactful on your life
so that is my advice all right next
question is from clutch media clutch
I've seen you in the comment feed before
uh thank you for engaging on Instagram
is where I think of you so thank you for
joining today on YouTube Tom hope you're
doing well I am thank you very much for
asking can you speak about a way or or
ways you would go about cutting off a
relationship with a friend and business
partner when the partner just has not
been reliable
okay so a friend is pretty easy
um because there's no contractual things
that extend the pain in that
relationship so first of all I really
really believe in principles and by that
I mean that the truth is the highest
value so
honestly there's only a certain ring of
my friendships that are so important to
me that I would employ the principles
but let's pretend that they are because
I think this is the far more interesting
way to look at this so if somebody's
really a part of my inner circle
and I care deeply about them and I want
them in my life
um before I would distance myself from
them I would first just tell them
exactly how I'm feeling I would point
out examples of times where I felt like
hey I was counting on you to be there
which by the way I would have been
abundantly clear about my expectations
wanting them to be there whatever the
case may be that it's important to me I
would define those words so I wouldn't
just say hey it's important to me that
you you know whatever come out to dinner
tonight or meet me for bowling or
whatever it is you're doing I would
Define the word important and say look
I'll never be abusive of this I'm not
going to say this every time I get we're
all busy and so maybe it's one out of 50
times that it's actually important to me
that you show up but when I say it's
important if you're not going to be able
to make it just tell me right away so
that I know I'm not counting on you Etc
um and really Define those terms so if
I've said hey this is important they
fail to show up I'm going to tell them
in real time exactly how that makes me
feel why that's troubling to me what
that you know makes me want to do
whether that's to not continue to invite
them or not invest in them as a friend
friendship or whatever I would say all
of those things and so being really
truthful being really open being honest
being direct I think is is the only way
to have a truly deep and meaningful
relationship
um so I'm of the ilk where I have
um a lot of acquaintances and I have
very few real deep friendships and those
real deep friendships are the people
that are really deployed the principles
on I explain to them what the principles
are if you want to read them for
yourself read Ray dalio's principles I
think that they apply not only to
business but to personal relationships
in fact I've deployed the principles
nowhere more profoundly than in my
marriage so check it out but yeah so
having that high level honesty I think
is really really important and then if
they're not living up to it then I would
just be honest about that and say look I
get it maybe that you're too busy for
this and I totally understand and
meeting them with compassion by the way
and not being passive aggressive or a
dick about it it's like look either they
just don't see friendship the same way
that you do or it's not as important to
them in that moment or or they're Just
Not That Into You which I think applies
to friends as well
so and you know just without being weird
or harsh I would you know enjoy what
time that I have with them if I want to
continue and to invest in that
friendship and then I wouldn't expect
anything beyond that and that's
something that I think is is really
important is to understand where people
fall on the spectrum of your friendship
to meet them where they are to enjoy
them for what they have to offer not
expect them to be more than they want to
be or are capable of being
um and yeah so if it's just somebody
that dips in and out of your life but
they're fun to be around then enjoy them
for that and don't expect them to be
more
um and then if they're in that range and
you just don't want to spend time with
them because you're not getting anything
out of them then simply stop spending
time with them now when it's a business
partner this gets much more difficult
and you're going to have to really look
at what's going on from a contractual
standpoint but even before I would say
just like cutting them out of your life
which is pretty simple of sitting them
down and saying hey this partnership
isn't working anymore and we need to
figure out where we're going to do
contractually to dissolve the
relationship I would look at how do you
make the relationship functional and I
think that make taking the relationship
functional has everything to do with
defining terms it has to do with
agreeing on values that's really
important you may find that you have
different languages of appreciation so
while you think they're not being
reliable that may just be something that
they don't value and they don't
communicate in that way so there's a
communication style that is acts of
service there's communication style
that's quality time and so you may be
somebody that communicates in quality
time so you're thinking that they're
unreliable because they don't
communicate in that way and so they
don't carve out that time to really be
there for you now if you're saying that
they're not reliable about the business
that could be something entirely
different and then that's going to be
defining expectations here's what I
expect from you the amount of time the
amount of energy and quite frankly what
are the metrics that you expect them to
hit and then all of the sort of
wishy-washy stuff goes away if you guys
agree on what the metrics are and the
metrics aren't being hit becomes very
easy to have the conversation of this
partnership is not working out okay I'll
leave it there all right next question
is from SIM land what is up dude
um you're gonna be here soon which is
crazy and cool and I can't wait to meet
you faces to face uh Tom what do you
make of the quote from George Bernard
Shaw life isn't about finding yourself
life is about creating yourself this is
[__] crazy
I just did this on Alexa
did it already come out and that's why
he's bringing it up or are we just
um simpatico not entirely sure I think
it's an amazing quote and I think it is
100 true and this to me is like the real
Gap that people have between where they
are and what they want to accomplish
they think that it is an archaeological
dig that they're going to find within
themselves things that have been laying
dormant somehow and that's just not how
this works you're going to craft
yourself you're going to have a vision
of the person that you want to become
you may even have a model of somebody
who's like that somebody that you look
up to somebody that you inspire to be
like and you're going to map out your
life your decisions your beliefs your
actions everything on what you believe
is going to get you to that state and
somebody I was just talking to
who was it and they said that when you
um what you need to do is describe what
success looks like like what would I be
saying as I'm describing to somebody
this thing being successful I think it
was Ray Kurzweil and then back into that
so if the press release if you will of
this success were XYZ like what would I
need to be saying and writing into that
press release and then actually go and
act in accordance with that that to me
is how you become the person that you
want to become is what does that person
act like and then start acting like that
so I don't think it matters who you are
I don't think it matters what situation
you were born into I don't think it
matters what your natural talents and
inclinations are I think it only matters
what you craft into your life I think
excitement can be crafted I think that
love can be crafted now because I know
that that one is controversial and
slightly misleading I think all of this
stuff starts from a flicker of interest
and then like with my wife on her first
date I was like whoa this chick is super
interesting now I don't believe in love
at first site it certainly was not love
on the first date but going into that
and Fanning those flames and feeding
into this notion of I want to be around
or I want to spend more time with her
like literally Fanning that and staring
at it and investing in that like by
investing in a desire to spend more time
with him her and cultivating like this
wants to be around her in like replaying
in my mind the time that we had spent
together and all of that stuff it really
begins to turn into this bonfire because
you're obsessing on it you're pointing
at it you're looking at it you're
cultivating you're crafting it you're
creating it as George Bernard Shaw said
so that I think is really that is the
truth and that people want um love to be
like this effortless thing that just
happens automatically I don't think it
works like that same with excitement I
think all of this stuff Peters out if
you don't fan those Flames so I think
you craft everything in your life
all right next question is from Charles
B this is on YouTube what are your views
on emotional intelligence and how much
control do you think we have over our
emotional states all right my views on
emotional intelligence are that it is
insanely important and I believe that
you can get hold of your emotional
states I think it is very hard
actually I was it was about to say it's
very hard not to feel the emotion but
even that will dim with time as you
craft your identity so at first it
starts with identity I think behavior
um is born of identity and your values
so as you begin to shape your values
which are a decision as you begin to
shape your identity which is a choice
and you craft it going back to the last
question as you begin to do that stuff I
think that over time your emotions to a
given situation will change very
dramatically so that's that is an
important thing to recognize and then I
think that by developing your
self-awareness by understanding that
you're having an emotion processing in
real time saying okay I'm having this
emotion what is this emotion what is the
cause of this emotion and really at the
cause level being willing to admit when
it's um insecurity pettiness jealousy
whatever the case may be being able to
really truly admit whatever deficiency
inadequacy
um just general lameness that exists in
your personality like if you're willing
to be honest about that then you can go
okay what is it
um that I'm lacking or believe I'm
lacking or whatever that's causing me to
have this Cascade and if you can nip
that in the bud by changing your
identity your values whatever your
belief system all the things that make
that up because you want to change that
because you think that whatever
emotional state you're having is
disempowering
um then you can diminish the amount of
time that you experience that and the
idea being to start recognizing the
emotion very fast recognizing what it is
the cause and addressing that cause
through what I call the mental Pachinko
machine which is a belief system of
things that take a negative belief and
insecurity of jealousy pettiness
whatever and turn it into something
positive getting very good at that and
my goal with myself and I'm definitely
not 100 of this but
um I've gotten so much better over the
years is to not even let that emotion
register on my face so I may feel it but
so quickly the pachenko machine takes
over and I flip that negative thing into
something positive so that's very
important I think that humans can get
insanely good at that and you will be
shocked at how many emotions you can get
control of and Flip or use them as a
trigger for an empowering Behavior so
you may have an insecurity that's the
emotion but you use that emotion as a
trigger to trigger an empowering
Behavior so I'll give you an example
maybe a slightly weak example but when
I'm at the dentist uh that [__] hurts
even when they numb you like even if
they're just cleaning your teeth that
[__] hurts and I hate this such a weird
pain so I find that that pain triggers
this like desire to recoil to get out of
there to curl up on my mother's lap and
cry like a baby but I use that very
negative emotion which does not make me
feel good about myself to literally lean
into the pain to open my mouth wider and
then in doing that that makes me feel
proud of myself that I'm not shying away
from pain that I'm not slinking away
from it and if I'm willing to do it on
something that is obviously positive
make sure that you have healthy gums and
teeth and I will do it in other areas of
my life where it's also empowering so
that is one example I don't know why
that one came to my mind right now but
that's one example of ways that you can
flip something that starts as this
negative recoil want to get away from
and turns it into something empowering
all right if you're ready to level up
all you need to do is take the steps
with the curriculum and Community that's
going to get you there enroll right now
in Impact Theory University 50 courses
100 hours of content and live sessions
with me every week where you can get any
question answered click the link and
change your life
next question Nicole page YouTube what
are your thoughts and suggestions on
creating better communication in
relationships I.E getting over the fear
of Confrontation and being able to hold
the people around you to a higher
standard it's interesting at the
beginning of that question I thought you
were talking about intimate
relationships which is not necessarily
what you're talking about so fear of
Confrontation how would I get over that
so part of that fear is coming from you
have a vision of yourself that you're
worried will be diminished because you
will either be unable to convince people
of your point of view or you'll be
unable to look cool or they're going to
browbeat you into submission or whatever
it is that's causing that fear of that
confrontation and I would say instead of
trying to come out the other side of a
confrontation looking cool or being
right or any of that go into that
confrontation with a desire to find out
what is really true what is really
optimal there may be a realization about
yourself which is hey maybe I'm not good
at making my case and maybe I need to
focus on getting better at that and so
if that's the thing that triggers your
insecurity going into that and that's
why you have a fear of Confrontation go
into it telling yourself and this is one
way that I've addressed this literally
in my own life instead of thinking I
need to perform well in this I'm going
to go into this as practice so hey if I
totally mess this up and embarrass
myself and I don't think of the cool
things that I wanted to say or the very
convincing things that I would have said
um you know and I think of them an hour
later which is very common I'll just go
in and and remember this is practice I'm
going to try maybe a new technique maybe
that new technique is simply lowering my
anxiety levels so I'm going to go into
this I really don't want this
conversation [__] this sucks I don't
want to do this but I'm going to go into
it and I'm just going to practice
getting out of the sympathetic nervous
system into the parasympathetic nervous
system so as that fear of Confrontation
kicks in and my heart rate starts
speeding up and my breathing gets
irregular I'm just literally going to
hey this conversation isn't about
winning the argument this conversation
is about practicing calming myself down
diaphragm breathing staying aware of my
thoughts not answering too fast and you
know trying to give a fast answer
instead of a thoughtful answer so in
going into practice those things I find
that the fear of anything whether it's
confrontation or just general anxiety is
going to be lowered so I think that
that's really really helpful and I do
fear that we scrolled off the question
and there was a second part to this
thank you
um
being able to hold people around you to
a higher standard okay so that to me is
is totally different and this is all
going to come down to what your
relationship is to them
um sadly in a business environment
depending on where you are in the
company hierarchy you may not be able to
hold people hold people to a higher
standard you can certainly set a high
standard through your behavior and
that's what I would encourage you to do
and I think that people over time always
recognize the high performers they
certainly recognize the people that are
actually making things better even if
people are just blanket stealing your
ideas if you've got enough good ideas
that they want to steal from you and
they're actually paranoid of being
without you and they have fear of loss
and you've gotten that good at
generating amazing ideas or moving
things forward or whatever
that won't go unnoticed so you've got a
lot of Leverage if you're able to
generate those kinds of ideas it puts
you in a position of power and while not
always easy to figure out the political
maneuverings to move up and around
somebody that's just stealing your ideas
it starts with being so good that they
fear losing you so I would focus on that
so lead by example
um and yeah when you're the one that's
delivering
and you really don't abuse this because
you can turn into a dick real fast by
trying to hold people to standards but
when your standard is like miles above
everybody else and you in a super
optimistic Pleasant and encouraging way
say hey like we can accomplish XYZ if we
all do XYZ that's probably the way to do
it and if you're leading from the front
and taking the hard jobs and really
charging in everything with an amazing
attitude and always trying to inspire
and motivate those around you and be
super encouraging I think you'll find
that people rise up to that it's just
[__] good leadership all right next
question is from samretz and Gupta hey
Tom there is absolutely no goal in the
world that fires me up to go after it no
passion nothing any suggestions all
right so first of all this is hearkening
back to something we were discussing
earlier which is nobody starts with a
passion some people develop a passion
very early in their life but they don't
start there so I'll give you an example
of how something in my own life started
so
um as a kid I really enjoyed watching
movies okay so that's that flicker of
interest and then my dad ends up
bringing a camcorder home and because I
really dug movies I thought oh let me
play around with this camera and I start
playing with it and it's kind of fun and
I have a friend who thinks it's kind of
fun and so we goof around on the cameras
um and it's kind of fun and that's it
and then we're shooting some stuff and I
remember like I just had an intuition of
like where to put the camera
um my dog just jail broke I'm kind of
impressed right now that she was able to
jump over that and half the team has
come to get her uh so I just found that
I had that intuitive
um thing of where to put the camera and
my dad made an offhanded comment and he
may have been trying to tell me that I
was terrible at being in front of the
camera but he said in a very sweet way
instead I actually think you're better
behind the camera than you are in front
of the camera now I took that as like
whoa he thinks I'm good behind the
camera that's amazing and so that like
feel good thing with my dad wanting to
to impress My dad became me really
focusing on being behind the camera and
as I got better at it then I was able to
actually express myself behind the
camera and then slowly over time
reinvesting in that Fanning those Flames
really sitting in that wanting to get
great and loving the obsession and all
of that then I actually really started
to get good and in the process of
gaining that Mastery and Fanning those
Flames it became a passion but it wasn't
a passion right off the bat so that's
how literally the sort of oh flicker of
Interest random comment from Dad desire
to impress ends up becoming this massive
passion of my life so now you don't
always fall in love with things like
that I'm sure there were a thousand
thing my dad wanted me to be really good
at cars and I [__] hated working on
cars and so that did not turn into even
an interest let alone a passion but when
you get good at that process of
cultivating that creating that Fanning
those Flames investing in it
understanding the power of obsession
that obsession is a choice that it
starts with something that merely like
interests you then that turns into
capturing imagination through engagement
and then you found those flames and it
really becomes a passion so just because
you don't have one now doesn't mean that
you couldn't find one but you're going
to have to invest you're going to have
to invest in forcing yourself to embody
excitement over something sort of
exaggerating it and there's all kinds of
studies that I could talk about but I
will give you one brief thing which is
that there is a mechanism in the mind
where whatever your reaction is however
big it is however theatrical your
reaction is your brain goes oh it must
have been worth that reaction which is
why when people get really pissed off
they only further invest and that they
were truly wronged or whatever so if you
do the same thing with excitement and
embody that excitement push that
excitement out share that try to radiate
that excitement you'll find that your
brain goes whoa this must have really
been worth that level of excitement so
that thing that only started as an
interest really becomes something all
right that's enough on that uh next
question is from mitchiepreneur a very
clever name
um I'm motivated and ready to suffer but
I tend to stumble on actually finding
what I think is a good model or idea any
thoughts or strategies on finding the
business that jives with your passion
okay so uh uh what is the real way to
answer this question you have a passion
but you don't know how to build a
business so this is going to be
intersecting circles think of a Venn
diagram so you're going to be looking at
what is my passion what is the need that
the world has and what can I monetize so
in the area where those three things
meet that's going to be the business
opportunity so
um
I I'll walk you through what I did with
impact Theory but it actually didn't
start with the the passion that I have
for the path which is where I think
people get confused so I have deep
passion for the path that we're
employing right now which is
um media filmmaking TV storytelling all
of that but the actual goal the mission
is to pull people out of the Matrix
meaning to help people get rid of that
limiting belief system that's holding
them back because the thing that I I
just I am over the moon I get the the
biggest chemical reaction from
neurochemical reaction is that moment of
Awakening where somebody realizes that
they can do something that a minute ago
they didn't think they were capable of
because they simply shifted their belief
system and then that opens this whole
world of ways that they could go and
grow and get better and all of that and
that it ha it will have real world
impact on themselves and their family
now when that happens and somebody turns
to me and says dude it is because of you
that I'm able to do this that is the
[__] juice for me nothing gets me as
excited as that nothing amps me up like
that literally absolutely [__]
nothing which by the way if you see me
out in the world trust me when I say
you're not interrupting me I absolutely
love it when people come up and say hey
man because of the content I'm doing
this or whatever or dropping in comments
like I [__] love that stuff so that
is incredibly meaningful to me that is
the absolute juice that is the thing
that I'm just over the moon about now
I'm starting with that okay that's the
thing that I love now where is the
business opportunity what can I monetize
what's the problem that the world needs
to solve now I really believe that there
is an just an unimaginable amount of
human suffering that comes from having a
belief system that holds you back the
easiest way for me to think about it is
inner cities now this is not the only
way that this manifests but it is
certainly one of them what your ZIP code
is when you're born has such a freakish
determinant on your life that is so
terrifying to me I absolutely hate that
and this really just became incredibly
clear to me at Quest when we were
manufacturing and working in the inner
cities and just seeing these incredible
extraordinary human humans with like all
these beautiful stories and tragic
stories and all this
potential and I just knew they weren't
going to do anything with it because of
their belief system and so I thought
okay that's that is a huge problem that
when people
realize what they're really capable of
like they're lit on fire in a way like
nothing else so what is a business
opportunity around this and then what we
came to was building out the studio
because it's the only way that I believe
people are going to change our belief
system is through narrative that's just
how humans work and so I didn't want to
leverage or I didn't want to change
Behavior I wanted to leverage it so
what's a way that people already
assimilate their belief system they
assimilate their belief system through
their parents to their friends and
through
um media stories so I knew that well I
can't impact their friends or their
family but I can impact the stories that
we're telling so
that's where we started it's a massive
business already
um so telling stories that I think
people will be more into than the next
story building a community around that
creating social content that I think is
better than the other stuff
um all of that becomes that monetizable
event so you have to get good at
identifying that walking backwards
starting with what is my goal what do I
really care about what am I my dad gave
me a plaque and it said find something
that you would die for and live for it
so find that thing like what's that
thing that amps you up and then work
backwards into that opportunity all
right next question is from Mike per
chili persa Chile hi Tom I often have
trouble communicating Concepts I read to
others in a clear concise way is there a
specific process you take when trying to
convey a concept to an audience more
effectively yes so you need to
understand like what are the building
blocks what are the basic concepts that
they would need to understand to really
get the big concept related to things
that they already know so that you're
tying it through analogy metaphor to
things they already understand and then
meet them with compassion don't be uh
don't talk down to them
um really try to share your own raw
enthusiasm for this idea why it is that
to you it's worthwhile explaining or
getting people to understand and then
also always always always be open to
being wrong so
um have strong convictions loosely held
when you go into something like that
with the humility and excitement and
then breaking things down into their
constituent Parts using analogy using
metaphor to to tie it to something that
they already know and understand I think
then you can really communicate
something don't try to be clever don't
try to come across as smart really just
try to break the concepts down into
their basic building blocks and then
here's one thing that like people really
don't think about you will notice that
I'm doing it right now and I wasn't even
thinking about it until this minute you
need to speak in a way that draws people
in if I answered every question like
this and every now and then I'll
interview somebody and their answers are
like this and I want to stab myself in
the face during the interview because
the human mind is meant to respond to
emphasis changes in inflection Rhythm
all of that stuff so if you can find a
way to say it in a way that will also
draw people in they will say that you're
charismatic but it's really just
understanding how to make people feel
encouraged welcomed and then draw them
in with the way that you're speaking all
right so next question is from Star
hardgrove can you explain how you
explain your T-shirt to people I find I
get pushback and backlash when I say
that to peeps alright star Hard Grove so
first of all welcome to the club
I wrote an article now I want you to
imagine when I first decided I was going
to start creating content this is
probably
God three and a half years ago when I
first decided that I was going to start
creating content I I thought what is
like the most powerful important idea
that I have and I'm gonna start with
that I'm gonna write from that position
and the thing that I came up with was
this article about how if I were hit by
a drunk driver I would blame myself and
I'd go into all this detail about like
how the situation ends up so I'm
literally like there's nothing I could
do and that I knew any sane person would
say when I asked whose fault is that
accident everybody insurance companies
everybody is going to say oh dude it's a
drunk driver's hole 100 so when the
punch line came
that it was my fault I thought people
are going to be liberated they're going
to realize oh my God this makes so much
sense because if I take ownership even
in that moment when everybody else is
going to say no way that's not your
fault if I take ownership in that moment
I am in power of everything in my life
I'm while I may be a victim or why I may
be victimized excuse me I'm never a
victim and that choosing to play the
role of the victim is my choice and I
can even in that moment choose to be
empowered to remember that I could have
done something differently including not
getting into a car
that I'm always in control
the backlash I got on that article which
I was trying to give people the gift
that had taken me from scrounging my
couch cushions to find enough change to
put gas in my car to building a billion
dollar business like that was the thing
that was one of the biggest
breakthroughs that I had it was one of
the most important realizations ever
that I think anyone can have and people
flipped the [__] out and like the
comments were gnarly and I was like wow
so
here's the reality I preached to the
[__] choir I am not trying to
convince people the truth of the [__]
world is that until you take ownership
of everything in your life until you
stop making excuses and blaming anybody
you will never go as far as you could go
never I don't care I don't give a [__]
about fairness any of that [__] like
the reality is if that's how you think
you will go less far than somebody who
takes ownership of everything no matter
how absurd that is the truth of the
world I don't know what people want me
to say if you go underwater and try to
breathe without an apparatus you will
[__] drown that's the truth whether
people want to agree with me on that or
not is totally irrelevant to my life so
it's a very energetic way of saying
I don't try to explain my t-shirt to
people and if they don't like it hey
full respect
the response that I just gave you I
would never give to somebody because I
actually feel bad that people are stuck
there like the whole point of impact
theory is to make content that hits
people not the social content to make
narrative content that somebody who is
antagonistic to change who's
antagonistic to a growth mindset
lives in this world that we create these
stories that we tell
and they admire the characters and they
watch the characters go on a journey and
they learn a lesson of empowerment from
those characters that makes it
impossible
not to begin to adopt that belief system
because they see how powerful it is
but I don't spend time trying to
convince people explain it nothing this
is my bat symbol in the sky and I wear
this shirt not to convince anybody but
to find the person who walks up and says
I totally agree with that
and then I know that person is my people
they are part of my tribe and I want
them in my life in some way shape or
form so
don't worry about convincing people meet
them with compassion don't
don't proselytize or any of that
understand that a fixed mindset is its
own punishment and simply wear it to
remind yourself of something powerful
and to find other people who think like
you think all right
next question from ex bouncers all right
hey Tom what would your advice be for a
24 year old who just went back to
college and is trying to optimize their
schedule developing good organizational
skills such as writing things down
um so
beyond my morning routine so the things
that we've already covered in this
episode and I'll run quickly through
them cognitively optimized which means
getting sleep work out eat right those
are massive write everything down sounds
like you're already on top of that
schedule your time if it's not in your
calendar it is not a priority so start
scheduling your days and you will see
proof positive what you actually think
is important because it is the things
you actually give time to so that's
really critical keeping important things
list so that you never waste time in
transitional moments trying to think of
what you should be doing next you should
have a list in order remember you can
never have two top priorities so
priorities need to be put in order that
doesn't mean that there aren't multiple
things that aren't important
but there can only be one top priority
so the important things list is in order
boom as soon as you have downtime a free
moment
um which by the way there won't be a
whole lot of them because they'll be
scheduled and things like my important
things time is one of the very in fact
it is
it is almost always the very first thing
that I schedule so my schedule right now
through the next several months has
important things already blocked out of
my schedule so if you look at my
schedule like for today it's [__]
Mayhem
but the thing that I put first would be
important things so as you look out the
farther you get away from the current
day the less and less things are on my
schedule but there are already huge
blocks for important things now
important things with the air quotes is
that list that I have of the most
important things that I could be doing
to move the business forward keep that
list Whatever It Is What books you
should be reading things you should be
studying for you know based on your
class load and all of that and then as
soon as you have time that you haven't
already scheduled or when you hit a
block that's scheduled for the important
things that you just then go down that
list all right so that's my advice next
question is from Jeremy Stickney hi Tom
how do your goals shift from ending how
did your goal shift from any metabolic
disease at quest to focusing more on the
mind and pulling people out of the
Matrix and starting impact Theory what
was your thought process I want to pull
people out of the Matrix now I really
believe that part of that is diet and
exercise that's hugely important and I
felt that we'd made absolutely massive
strides there and the business was going
and we'd had just all kinds of absurd
financial success and it was amazing and
I was in the position where I could ask
myself I can do anything now and what do
I want to do and so I started inside
Quest and I was super stoked on it and
people were asking why the hell is the
protein bar guy talking about mindset
that's super [__] weird my partners
didn't share the vision for that either
it was going to be very expensive to
execute against that to make the brand
of quest flexible enough that it could
incorporate mindset I'd be dragging my
partners along in that Journey which
isn't fair to them and I have deep
concerns about any Brand's flexibility
and getting the the great irony and this
will explain the struggle the great
irony of my life when I was at Quest
people were like why is the protein bar
guy talking about mindset now that I've
done impact Theory we're about to launch
a new show called Health Theory and
we're not going to be able to launch it
on my channels because people want to
know why is the mindset guy talking
about protein bars so oh the [__]
irony so brands are a thing they people
go to a brand for certain things they
like you guys think of me in a certain
way you think of me all about mindset
that is one part of my personality and
that is certainly the core Central focus
of the brand of impact Theory and the
brand of Tom bilyeu but that is not the
sum total of my existence the only thing
that I focus on all of that so getting
people to understand
a brand in a much broader context I
think it's probably futile and so rather
than trying to do that I realized that
if I was going to do the thing that is
most honest in
um the thing that makes me feel most
alive which is pulling people out of the
Matrix I had to spin it off as a
separate brand and so here we are
um yeah that's it all right next
question Stephen Davis in the beginning
did you work as much as you do now or
have you improved over time how have you
increased productivity and discipline to
work 18 hours a day all right so it
depends on when you're starting that
clock because when I was
um just out of college I was insanely
lazy and I'm so embarrassed and I never
I actually don't want myself to lose
sight of how lazy I was nor do I want
people who follow me to lose sight of
how lazy I was because I want people to
understand you can become anything you
want to become
you create who you are you don't
discover it
talked about that earlier
so that is really really important but I
used to be insanely lazy now as I began
to change my identity and strive to
become the person that I wanted to
become instead of focusing on who I was
then I realized that being lazy and
giving into that was not going to take
me where I wanted to go it didn't make
me feel more alive and so as I fed into
the things that made me feel alive as I
found those Flames as I changed my
identity made demands of myself altered
my belief system and really began to
invest emotionally by rewarding myself
for my ability to go hard to work to
push forward on things that I really
believe in to invest in things that make
me feel alive to make the demand that
the thing that I'm working my ass off
for is something that I really believe
in and that's why man do not follow me
nor listen to my advice if you don't
love what you do because if you don't
love what you do and you work 18 hours a
day you are a [__] fool and you will
hate your life and you will look back
with nothing but regret
so the last thing I want is somebody to
take my advice on the surface and miss
the part where I say find something you
would die for and live for it make the
demand that the way you make your living
the way you earn your money is doing
something that you care deeply about
that gives you more energy than it takes
now if you have all of that in place you
cannot accept weakness from yourself you
need to be pushing forward you need to
make huge demands of yourself because
that is how you will optimize your
abilities that is how you will actually
uh um actuate your potential and do the
things you want to do and gaining skills
and getting better at something is
what's going to allow you to actually
have the kind of impact that you want to
have now when you have that core when
you understand that the harder you work
the more reverberations you can have in
the world remember my very definition of
power
is you close your eyes
you imagine a world
a world that is better than the one you
currently live in one that you want to
be real
and then you open your eyes and you have
the ability to make that world come true
that's power
that is power
if you want to cultivate that power in
your life it comes down to busting your
ass to gain skills that matter to you
and live in service not only of yourself
but of other people
so that's how I increased my
productivity and discipline because I
care about what I'm doing it makes me
feel alive it makes me feel energized it
is exciting I wake up excited to see if
I can pull this off I wake up excited to
work hard to get better because I know
that it actually has real world
implications
so I didn't start this way I don't think
anybody does you have to cultivate it
you create this stuff and it all starts
with cultivating
that passion
all right next question is from Dr Jack
Callahan how can I deal with an insecure
mom mom technically and aggressive and
stubborn stepdad who both say I'm the
worst part of the family should I be
selfish and focus on myself I also use
the 80 20 and it's amazing okay that's
awesome so 80 20 80 of your time in the
Beautiful the things you're grateful for
all the things you're trying to make
come true in your life 20 chip on your
shoulder [__] you I'm gonna succeed no
matter what anybody says Dark Side never
spend more than 20 of your time there
becomes super corrosive all right so
um I'll just say that if you can get out
of this situation like if you live with
them
um I would get out immediately second I
would meet them with compassion and in
no way shape or form let them influence
how I think about myself so anybody that
can actually say you're the worst part
of this family
a that is so horrific and cruel that it
doesn't make any sense to say because
the only hope you could have by saying
that is to diminish somebody now if you
wanted to lay out metrics and say hey as
a family can we all agree these are
going to be our goals then you may say
hey some of your behaviors are moving us
away from those goals so I really want
to talk about that and I want to see how
that we can address them because I know
that you could since you agree on what
these goals are I know that we could get
your behavior in alignment with
something that makes that better and
you're valued and loved member right
like there's a way to handle that if
somebody has behaviors that don't make
sense and maybe you do but saying
something like you're the worst part of
this family is so corrosive and
ridiculous that already it just shows a
fundamental lack of understanding of
human empathy and human psychology but
this is where I think you bring your
understanding of human empathy and human
psychology to understand that somebody
that can say that like there is a
negativity in them there is a an
unhappiness a sadness an insecurity
um a sense of being ineffective because
the only thing they know how to do is
lash out and hurt that I I would meet
them with compassion now I would meet
them with silent compassion I'll be
really [__] honest with you because
I'm not going to try to convince them
I'm not going to argue with them I would
be uh like water and so if they tried to
push me it's very hard to push water so
I would
yeah I would just let that roll off me
and I think you have to get very good at
that at understanding what people are
capable of at understanding where they
are mentally emotionally and not try to
worry about convincing them I don't fall
for the impossible to please father
routine which I know a lot of people do
but that is not something that resonates
with me so when I realize that somebody
is impossible to please or that they're
broken in their own ways I don't spend
my time trying to convince them of my
Worth or anything else it's I will love
them for what they have to offer and I
think that totally writing off your mom
would be very very difficult for you
there's just something hardwired in us
to make that next to Impossible but I
certainly wouldn't expect praise from
her I would not allow her to hold any of
my self-worth or anything and you you
have to totally detach yourself from
that it is not easy there is much
sadness that's going to be around that
but I think that it is absolutely
imperative that you not take her opinion
of you seriously now separate the
message from the messenger if your
mother ever has even in a hateful way
something that is real and something
that you want to address in your life
don't be afraid to stare at that accept
that and make that change and grow and
get better but if she's saying things
like you're the worst thing worst part
of the family Chancellor she's never
going to recognize your improvement so
don't improve in the hopes of getting
approval from her don't improve with the
hopes of getting approval from her and
just won't work all right
um we have very little time left
probably time for one more question from
Mia Jaffrey hi Tom how do I maintain
faith in myself when the people in power
in my field have very low trust in me
even when I have proved my ability
multiple times all right so
here's the reality of being so good that
they can't ignore you if they're
ignoring you then chances are you
haven't proven yourself as far as you
think you have
um and so that's reality I would highly
encourage you to watch genius
um the story of Albert Einstein season
one
um what he does when the establishment
tells him that he's like a total jackass
and he doesn't know what he's talking
about and he barely passes college and
everybody just thinks that he's this
flighty guy and he can't get a job at a
university and so he's working as a
patent clerk watch what he does
to get acceptance and become the Albert
Einstein that we all know he doesn't
publish one groundbreaking
um theory he publishes like three or
four in the span of something like 18
months they end up still to this day
being the most important documents
um or breakthroughs in physics and it's
like he did it literally because he had
a chip on his shoulder and people
wouldn't pay attention and so he had to
go that far to prove to people beyond a
shadow of a doubt that he was a real
deal that he had insights that people
weren't taking seriously so my thing is
if you haven't gone that far if you can
still be ignored if your detractors have
enough ammunition to shut you down you
just haven't gone far enough and I get
it that is not what people want to hear
but that is the God's honest truth man
if you can be ignored then by definition
you haven't gotten so good that you
can't be ignored Focus all of your time
and attention into getting better skill
acquisition it is the only thing the
only promise I can make you if if you
focus all of your time and energy into
the beauty The Joy the wonderment
of skill acquisition not from a dark or
negative place but focus on how awesome
it is that as humans we can get great at
things it's the one decision you won't
regret it is
five years ten years down the road
whether that group of people ever
recognizes you or not you will become so
much better so Focus all of your time
and energy there and don't be afraid to
look for another job if people in your
world don't recognize you and if it's
people industry-wide that don't
recognize you then we're back to the
Einstein problem you just haven't gone
far enough yet in these next clips I go
over the actionable steps you must take
in order to radically transform your
life all right you guys ready we're
gonna have some fun we're gonna take the
energy get a little bit crazy I want to
make sure that you guys end this on a
high note and honestly I will be wildly
disappointed in myself if all I managed
to do in this is Inspire or motivate you
at the end of this talk I will consider
myself a failure if that's all that
happens I will consider it a win on the
other hand if you guys go out and
actually take action
and at the end of the day all of us were
not judged by our intentions
we are judged by what we actually
accomplish
and your accomplishments are going to be
entirely determined by what you actually
do and my talk is going to be about that
how to take action exactly what action
is made up of and why it's critical to
recognize that humans lead with belief
and so at the end of this talk hopefully
I will get you guys to understand why
right now you have everything that you
need already to believe in yourself to
be capable to do something that is truly
extraordinary and we're going to walk
through that path but for my talk to
make any sense I'm gonna have to give
you guys a little bit of my back story
not that I can see a whole lot but has
anybody familiar with me prior to seven
seconds ago
when you learned that I wake up wow well
I'm completely shocked by that uh thank
you by the way
so to give those of you who don't know a
little bit of background my story goes
like this growing up I did not show any
signs of success my parents taught me to
be a good employee which I'll liken to
the slave's mentality to keep my head
down do as little work as possible and
avoid punishment at all costs and that's
how I started
I grew up in a family in Tacoma
Washington that teetered between blue
collar and white collar and I was being
trained to be a good employee and when I
left for college my own mother who's
always been my biggest cheerleader I
think that's important to recognize just
quietly assumed I was going to fail
and every day since I left by the way my
mom all but forced me to go to college
kick me out of the nest it was only one
of I think two people to leave the state
for my graduating class everybody else
stayed home I wanted to stay home
and my mom said you need to go chase
your dreams
but then every moment since then my mom
has done everything she can to get me to
move back to Tacoma and so finally one
day I asked her and I said Mom I really
don't get it like why you were the one
that pushed me you were the one that
kicked me out so why are you working so
hard to get me back and she said with No
Malice in her heart
I just assumed you were going to fail
I assumed you were going to fail and
come home but I never wanted you to ask
what if
I have the chills on my face remembering
that
because that's the Human Condition
there is something inside of us that we
all recognize that says we could do more
we could be more we are capable of
becoming something
but it's that path to becoming that we
don't really understand and it's that
path to becoming that I want to talk
about today I love the theme of this
event
pivot making a change while keeping your
Center that to me really is what life is
all about but that's that's the hype now
how do we get into the Tactical
realities of that and to explain that
I'm going to walk you through some of my
story
so my story starts when I go to film
School USC Film School statistically
speaking is harder to get into than
Harvard Law
and I managed to get in
I had taken one of the teachers out
who was on the acceptance committee and
I said look I have really terrible SAT
scores I got a 990 on my SATs by the way
I took it twice that is my combined
score
monkeys with feces just rubbing it on
there get better scores than that
and I was mortified I went to the
committee to find out what I needed to
do to get into film school which was my
dream the thing that I most wanted in
this world and they said hey as long as
you've got good grades and you have a
1300 on your SATs no problem
and I was devastated because I was so
far from that
so I took one of the teachers out and I
said look I have a confession I got
really bad SAT scores I took it twice
look I'm just not good on testing La the
whole story and he was like oh who cares
he was like there's two points of
acceptance once as an incoming freshman
where yeah we look at your SAT scores
but the other is as an incoming Junior
and then we don't care about your SAT
scores which are merely meant to tell us
how well you do in college so I'm just
going to look at your grades so if you
get good grades I'm not even going to
look at the rest of your application
cool so I locked myself in my dorm room
for two years I didn't date I didn't
drink a drop of alcohol I didn't go to a
party all I did day and night was work
but what they didn't understand about me
what they didn't understand about the
human animal is our ability to adapt
grow and get better
the most fascinating thing to come out
of Science in a long time was when they
sequenced the human genome and they
realized and by the way they thought
they were going to solve everything they
thought they were going to cure cancer
they thought this was going to be the
end of chronic aging like all of the
diseases that we struggle with now they
thought they were all just going to go
away once we sequenced the human genome
that was going to be it it was going to
be like a map to Xanadu it was going to
be amazing
and then they did it and what they
discovered was humans only have 20
000 genes
and some onions have 40 000.
so they're literally looking at the data
going are we really meant to believe
that an onion is more genetically
complex than a human being how can this
be possible oh and by the way they were
ignoring all of this stuff that they
were calling junk DNA
now it didn't take them long to realize
that that junk DNA plays a role we are
without question the most dominant
species this world has ever seen we are
an apex predator unlike anything you can
find us in the Marianas Trench which is
the deepest part of the ocean you can
find us in the Arctic we have literally
sent human beings to the Moon
foreign
and what that junk DNA really is
is epigenetics
now it's just a fancy word for we
respond to our environment
and more aptly
we respond to stress
in our environment
anybody ever seen a professional
bodybuilder
no okay
a professional bodybuilder hardly looks
human to me
they are it's unbelievable what they're
able to do but they show in a very real
and tangible way what you can do to the
human body when you understand how to
put it under stress now if you've ever
been to the gym you know that the real
money is in tearing the muscle down not
building it up you actually build up the
muscle while you're sleeping based on
what you've eaten
so the act of bodybuilding of actually
going into the gym is an act of tearing
down so you can create the stress so
that your body can respond now if you
remember nothing else from my talk
remember this humans
are the ultimate adaptation machine
just by being human
each and every one of you is capable of
great change
who you are today
does not predict who you can become
who you can become is the answer to a
very simple question
what do you want
and what price are you willing to pay to
get there
what do you want
and what price are you willing to pay to
get there
Kobe Bryant one of the greatest athletes
of our time
would show up on game day and if he saw
anybody else at the gym as early as him
even though he was always the first on
the court he would end up practicing
longer than that person and I had the
honor of interviewing one of those
people one time
and he said I went up and asked Kobe
Kobe we have a game in an hour like what
are you doing out here practicing so
long and Kobe said I needed you to know
that I was willing to outwork you
and in that game they ended up winning
and that lesson stuck with that guy
forever
when you're willing to put in the work
when you're willing to take control of
your environment and put yourself
through the stressors required for
adaptation you literally can become
anything
and my life is proof of that
so I stand here
as one of the founders of a company
a company called Quest Nutrition that we
took from not existing
to being valued over a billion dollars
five years later
thank you
that was the guy whose mother not too
long before that just quietly assumed he
was going to fail at college
but what I began to understand
is that I could harness that ability to
adapt
that we can learn in any direction
Nature has to make a choice with any
species option number one pre-program
everything think of a horse
when a horse is born it comes out it can
already run jump take care of itself
and then option two
be built for maximum flexibility
be able to adapt to your environment
a horse is a horse no matter where you
put it
but a human depending on when and where
it's born depending on what it allocates
its resources to its time and attention
it can turn into a basketball player a
neurophysicist a parent
a coach
a hair stylist
you literally get to choose you get to
decide what it is that you want to be
good at I want you to think about the
first time that you picked up a pair of
scissors
you didn't know what you were doing it
didn't feel like it was an extension of
your hand but now
when you step into that role when you
show up
the way that everything feels the way
that you set it around your station it's
all like it was meant to be it flows you
know right where things are how to cut
somebody's hair depending on the texture
of the hair the length the quality the
age of the person what they've done to
it you know it all you know how to mix
colors all of that stuff is from
training But the irony is people don't
stop and think about hey I got this far
in this thing simply by allocating the
time and the energy where else could I
go could I pivot
and the answer to that question is yes
the human animal is designed to adapt
that is literally what we are sculpted
to do
for me the piece of advice that I always
give to somebody whether it's an
entrepreneur or somebody who wants to be
the greatest parent of all time
what is your goal
you've got to start with your goal
everything works backwards from that
for me
I wanted to get rich
and the irony is
when I started on my entrepreneurial
journey I was literally saying that to
people I want to get rich
I just want to make a bunch of money
and so I started as a copywriter
in a technology company
because I'd failed to make it
in film school I actually ended up doing
horrifically
and I at the end of film school I felt
broken
embarrassed lost I had no idea where I
was going
but I started teaching filmmaking
and as I was teaching that class I
realized wow
I don't know enough to teach these
students
I need to like research at night and
practice to be able to come in and
present this material
and a weird thing happened as I started
doing that I was actually learning a lot
more and so I was able to convey that to
the students and I was able to help the
students make their films better and it
made me realize whoa there's this weird
reciprocal Loop
the harder I work over here then go and
explain it they actually can take that
knowledge and put it to use
building skill sets getting better at
something and I started thinking is that
something that I could do for myself and
at that moment these two very successful
entrepreneurs walk into my class
and at that time I was obsessed with two
things
I wanted to get rich
and I wanted six pack abs
now I grew up in a morbidly obese family
so for me that was real man and I used
to be 60 pounds heavier than I am now
and I wanted those six-pack abs man I
just had no idea how I was gonna get it
and I remember the first time that
somebody told me I think you already
have abs it's just under the fat
and I thought
what like that doesn't make sense
because I had done like a bunch of
crunches and I'm like I still don't see
them so I don't know what the problem is
maybe it was all the licorice I had a
thing the truth is hitting your career
goals is not easy you have to be willing
to go the extra mile to stand out and do
hard things better than anybody else but
there are 10 steps I want to take you
through that will 100x your efficiency
so you can crush your goals and get back
more time into your day you'll not only
get control of your time you'll learn
how to use that momentum to take on your
next big goal to help you do this I've
created a list of the 10 most impactful
things that any High achiever needs to
dominate and you can download it for
free by clicking the link in today's
description alright my friend back to
today's episode so these two guys walk
in very accomplished entrepreneurs
ripped six-pack AB bodybuilder types and
they said hey you're coming to the world
with your handout
if you want to control your art you have
to control your resources so if you want
to get back in the saddle and actually
become a filmmaker you're going to have
to learn to control the resources so
come with us be a copywriter but
understand this is a startup you can
have any role in the company that you
want you just have to become the right
person for that job
and so I took them at their word and I
pivoted and I left my teaching career
which had safety
and I looked to my wife and I said this
may fail but I've got to at least give
it a shot
and my wife said the words have become
famous for me which is I bet on you
thank you
now
what my wife was betting on wasn't that
I already knew how to do what they
wanted me to do because she knew I
didn't
what she was betting on
in me is the same thing that each and
every one of you have which is the
ability to learn
and so I went into it knowing I was not
the right person for any job in that
company I'd never been in a company like
that before I'd been totally focused on
film this was software it was security
software it was nothing that I had any
interest in but I wanted to get rich
and so I did it
and for six and a half years I put my
head down
like those early days in my dorm room
and I worked my ass off around the clock
I didn't take vacations meaning if I
went somewhere I would literally guys
this is real I would take a camera
so that I could watch what was going on
back at the facility
I was always working around the clock
and at six and a half years I was so
different than where I started I had
worked my way up I was now the chief
marketing officer of the company they
had given me 10 equity in the company I
was now on paper a multi-millionaire I
had done what I set out to do I was
capable of things that I never would
have believed that I could do running a
team
building a website online advertising
marketing all things that I didn't know
I didn't even know when I started the
difference between sales and marketing I
had no idea what the difference was
but here I was now the chief marketing
officer of a company that was winning
Awards was making money
standing in this beautiful conference
room overlooking the Pacific Ocean and I
realize I'm miserable and I've been
miserable for a long time
and I learned a really powerful lesson
that I want you guys all to think about
right now
the goal that I had
did not take me where I wanted to go
I was living the cliche of money Camp by
happiness
and I began to realize the game we're
all playing it's not success it's not
money
it's brain chemistry
to sum it up in the simplest way
possible the only thing in this life
that matters
the only thing in this life that matters
is what you think about in your most
Quiet Moments about yourself when you're
all alone and the only thing you have
are your thoughts if in that moment
regardless of your worldly success you
feel good about who you are you feel
good about what you've done and how
you've touched other people's lives you
feel good about what you're striving for
and trying to accomplish you feel good
that in the times when it got hard if it
mattered to you you pushed through
that matters
that matters a lot
but the money doesn't matter
and so I quit
and I realized I was just not interested
in living a life no matter how much
money there was we're in my Quiet
Moments I felt like I was wasting my
life
I felt like I wasn't helping people
I felt like I wasn't connected I wasn't
connected to my wife I'd been ignoring
her for years I felt like I wasn't
connected to my business partners
anymore it was all just about the money
I didn't have a why
who knows Simon sinek
pick it up for Simon
all right Simon and I did a video that
essentially broke the internet about
millennials
somebody watched it
what got Simon on the world stage is
this whole concept of why you've got to
know why you're doing what you're doing
If You're just showing up every day to
cut and dye hair to keep your lights on
you're going to have far less energy to
make it through the hard times than
somebody who is there to help transform
somebody to help make somebody their
best to help them feel their best and I
hope that you guys saw that video not
too long ago of the hairdresser that
went around and he was doing makeovers
on homeless people
right man
it was incredible it was so beautiful
the look on their face at that moment
where they see themselves for the first
time in front of the mirror and they are
seeing something totally new they're
seeing a version of themselves that they
did not know was there
and the ability to give that gift like
it is so easy to get lost in the
day-to-day grind of what you do what any
of us do
but if at the core Iving you is a deep
and unending why for what you're doing
you've got something now you've got a
chance to transcend what you're doing
and the way that happens is very
tactical has nothing to do with like
woo-woo being on there it's none of that
you're gonna have the energy that you
need to fight through people always ask
me how I generate energy
there's two ways number one take care of
your body there's just no way around
that at the end of the day it's a
biological thing that's going on the
production of ATP and the second thing
is you need to be excited about the
future that you're trying to create and
when I went in and quit even though I
had millions of dollars in equity and I
was making more than I'd ever made
I quit because I didn't have a why I
didn't have anything that gave me the
energy to keep pushing I didn't have
excitement for what I was doing anymore
my partners were stunned totally took
them by surprise I'm driving home I
called my wife and I say I did it I Quit
like we're actually we were going to
move to Greece
we're gonna live for cheap on some beach
somewhere and I was gonna write
and that was going to be that and then I
am pulling into the driveway of my condo
and my phone rings and it's my partners
and out of love and respect I take it
I say hey baby give me a second I'm
gonna take this they're calling
and they said come out to dinner with us
and I went out
and they said look
we could do this without you
but we don't want to
and that was all I needed to reconnect
to something other than money
and I remembered for a minute these were
guys that I loved these were people that
I had gotten to know through good times
through bad times
through the hard times to the excitement
of the company growing
and in connecting to something other
than the money I was finally able to
really see and understand what it was
that motivated me and I confessed to
them that money was not my highest
priority in business my highest priority
was camaraderie I wanted to connect I
wanted to bring something of value to
the customer I wanted to think about the
customer I wanted to be myself and I
wanted to Market in a way that was
inclusive and created a community
and in that community
we could do something more than just
sell products
and so we decided to sell that company
because they felt the same and they
wanted to do something based on passion
they wanted to have the energy and
excitement to see things through and for
three very different reasons we decided
to form Quest Nutrition now as I
mentioned I grew up in a morbidly obese
family so for me
I was never going to chase money again
and I told them that I was only going to
focus on value creation and it had to be
something that I had a deep and personal
connection to
so for me I started thinking every day
about saving my mom and my sister
my mom and my sister are both morbidly
obese and have been essentially my
entire life and I knew that I was going
to lose them too soon if I couldn't
solve the problem of how they ended up
there I wanted to give them food that
they could choose based on taste and it
happened to be good for them
now if that doesn't sound hard let me
assure you that it is very hard and
there was one point in my life where we
were making the Bars by hand and it was
so hard and so painful that I would wake
up this is a true story I would wake up
in the middle of the night with my hands
cramping closed
that's a weird way to wake up let me
just tell you right now
but I wanted it that bad
now we started producing the bars in
Compton
and on the line this is another true
story
on the line we had Bloods and Crips
and in the middle of it you got the
crazy white guy
now the reason it worked
was because I was prepared to outwork
everybody else I knew exactly what I
wanted I had my why I had my goal and it
was very specific and this is a thing
about goals they have to be incredibly
specific and my goal was to end
metabolic disease
not sell a lot of protein bars that was
not the goal I wanted to end metabolic
disease and that informed every choice
that we made as entrepreneurs every time
that we had to answer a hard question
one that might impact profitability or
how late we were going to have to work
or what we were going to have to do and
it almost always was difficult including
by the way we had to become our own
manufacturers which we did not want to
do
we wanted to Outsource it we just wanted
to be marketers but nobody would make
the bar for us
or they would but they said that we had
to add sugar to it and we asked a simple
question will that help end metabolic
disease yes or no if yes we'll do it if
no we won't and it wouldn't so we didn't
it starts with that specific goal
and then because I had my why my hands
cramping closed in the face of doing
something to save my mom and my sister
it was not a hard choice in fact I
wouldn't have been able to look myself
in the eye and say I was not able to
help them
because it was hurting my hands
right it sounds ridiculous when you say
it like that but most people don't have
a personal tie to what they're doing
Mother Teresa has an amazing quote no
one will act for the many
but people will ask for the one
and so as you guys go into your jobs and
you think about what you're trying to do
find a way to stop making it a job find
a way to make it a calling a vocation
something that really meets that why
your desire to connect or do something
great for people
which by the way when I say that the
game that you're playing is brain
chemistry what I'm talking about is
fulfillment
there's a difference between happiness
and fulfillment a bowl of ice cream
brings me happiness
it does not bring me fulfillment
fulfillment is often born of suffering
fulfillment is about doing the things
that are hard in fact the Greeks have a
word for it it's called Techni Techni
means that you acquire a set of skills
that is unique to you the acquisition of
those skills was very difficult and
here's the important part
those skills serve other people
to me I believe that the very
reason that we're all here
is to see how many skills we can acquire
that have utility and then put that
utility to the test in service of others
that's going to be the thing that lies
you on fire that you're busting your ass
you're really getting good at something
you are taking action you're moving
forward you're doing the things you need
to learn to do to learn and Trigger that
adaptation response that humans have
you're putting yourself under the stress
you've identified a goal you're working
Your Way backwards
to where you are today
and that's the key it's what I call
minding the gap
there's a gap between who you are today
and who you will need to become
in order to execute against your why
that thing in you that's burning that
you really care about enough to get
across the finish line that you care
about enough to keep doing even when
it's making your hands cramp closed that
you care about enough even when you've
got to come in and work between rival
gang members it's the thing that you
care about enough that you really will
work so hard
that the rival gang members fall in line
behind you because you're leading by
example
thank you
and that became my mission every day
I'm going to show up and outwork
everybody
I'm going to be the first one here I'm
going to be the last one to leave and
most importantly guys I really hope you
were listening to Robert geldini whose
books I have read and all but memorized
the key is
you want to connect with them you want
them to fall in love with you you want
them to be inspired you want them to
feel better about themselves when
they're around you than when they're not
and if you can pull that off they will
go to war for you
and in the beginning
when all we could do because we didn't
know production we just had to throw
human capital at it and I needed people
there not kidding at 2 A.M on a Friday
night
I had a bunch of
ex-convicts in their early 20s with the
tattoos on the face the teardrop and all
that grinding it out to make protein
bars
because I gave them hope
because I showed them
that it doesn't matter who they are
today
it only matters who they're trying to
become
and the price that they're willing to
pay to get there
and so when you guys walk out of here
that's what you've got to ask this whole
theme of pivoting this whole theme of
keeping your Center
is about knowing what you want
and believing you can make it a reality
but the only way to make it a reality is
to put in the work you've got to put in
the work the change is hard the change
is difficult the change will demand
everything of you
but man if inside you really believe in
what you're doing you really see how you
can get to that goal that you want if
you really see how you can serve other
people doing what you do with this skill
set that you've worked your ass off to
acquire
then you can actually make change in
people's lives and that's what motivates
me getting the skills has real world
implications it took me from scrounging
in my couch cushions to find enough
change to put gas in my car to building
a billion dollar business
it is absolutely Limitless what you can
accomplish
now think about that if that's really
true if what I just said is true that
human potential is Limitless
then how you spend your time becomes a
spiritual consideration you're the
average of The Five People You spend the
most time with that's just true and but
now it's become so common to say and
it's like every Instagram post that I
fear it's going to lose its meaning who
are you spending time with because if
you're spending time with people like
you you're spending time with people
like me I'm I'm raising you up or I'm
just not going to spend time with you so
it's like now if you get in a mix of
people like that who are like man we'd
love for you to raise up to this level
but if you don't it's fine but we're
just not going to spend time with you
all of a sudden that desire to belong to
something powerful that you can see is
going to lead you to your dreams and I
remember saying to my wife over and over
and over they are the surest path to my
success I don't know anything else I
just know if I can hang on to these guys
they're gonna make me better and so that
was through all the years of being
embarrassed and developing actually
massive anxiety because I was always
behind I was always the dumbest person
on the phone I was always the dumbest
person in the room and it was like was I
I going to be willing to emotionally go
through that to get great and most
people can't so here's the thing now
imagine I'm not the only person they
said hey this is a startup you can have
any job you want they I saw
12 people maybe more come and go over
the years they just couldn't emotionally
deal with it and so I remember thinking
to myself why is it that I'm able to do
this and the answer was I could
self-soothe faster than anyone else so I
would get kicked in the face and I would
do something really dumb I'd be called
an idiot told how stupid I was and then
I'd just be like all right I need to
re-center and that just became my
obsession I need to be able to
emotionally get back to complete neutral
so fast that you don't even see it
register on my face how'd you do it how
do you do that literally practicing so
remember the same time reading about the
brain voraciously I'm reading about
people that understand human behavior
I'm getting into cognitive science
Neuroscience like really going into it
so I'm reading all this stuff going whoa
we're just a chemical processing plant
there are physiological hooks into these
chemicals so hey if you're mad scared
whatever but you force yourself to laugh
out loud you will change your
neurochemical state and you literally
your experience is the neurochemistry so
I was like whoa so I could get I could
be in a such situation where I'm being
berated or I legitimately mess up and it
costs money and it's like whoa that's on
me and it is nobody's bad of my own and
I realize that what most people do their
strategy is to deflect it it's your
fault it's not my fault yes so I started
thinking of this as a metaphor people
are throwing gold at me they're throwing
it really hard and I can put a shield up
and deflect it but then I lose that
piece of gold if I drop my shield and
just take the pain let it hit me in the
head then I bend down and go this thing
which was me being stupid there's a
lesson here and now I have this piece of
gold but the whole thing is I have to be
defenseless so I have to own it I have
to take it I can't fight if someone is
like this to this day if our team is
like hey there's something we need to
point out to you I'll do this
I square up to it I want them to know
like hey I want to hear it I want to
know like I want to be literally
physically open I'm not going to close
down I'm going to do everything I can to
square off to open myself so that they
know I'm receptive to the criticism
right because that's the Nugget of gold
what I know is it's Gonna Hurt it's
gonna sting but if I can emotionally
re-center so fast you don't even see
that I went through something now I can
just process how do I take this
information you've given me and get
better everything in my life is driven
by how something makes me feel and I
really believe all you have in this
world is how you feel about yourself
when you're by yourself so in that dark
quiet night when you're all alone do you
feel good or not and so I steer by that
and when I start losing sleep because
something is stressing me out or I think
I handled something poorly I have to
correct that
and what are the tactics
so part of this is you have a belief
system through which everything is
filtered so my thing is okay belief
system I can get good at anything I set
my mind to uh belief system number two
having a growth mindset is the absolute
ideal so that means that just because
I'm not good at something now doesn't
mean I can become good at it that I
should only value myself for being a
learner I shouldn't worry about being
smart right good talented nothing just
the willingness to stare nakedly at my
inadequacies so if I've done something
and it's making me feel badly about
myself I start running through those
filters also does this beating myself up
is it moving me towards my goal or away
from it now a little bit of beating
yourself up actually probably does move
you towards your goal because it kicks
you in the ass and gets you moving
taking it seriously you're really
thinking about it but then too much of
it begins to erode yourself and so I
have to balance like am I just beating
myself up and now I've taken it too far
and I'm losing sleep over something I
just need to let go and focus on getting
better instead of punishing myself like
just get better at it so those those are
the tactics that I use the word yet is a
huge tactic for me Tom you suck oh I'm
not good at that yet okay cool thank you
got it I can get good at that and just
keep coming back to those very simple
basic building blocks of my belief
system what I value where my priorities
lie what my goal is having total Clarity
am I actually moving towards it and then
just really holding yourself accountable
to that without damaging your
self-esteem one of my like guiding
principles is never do anything that
diminishes you and then never do
anything that moves you away from your
goal so again goal you have to have that
Clarity so I know what I'm trying to do
okay well if I know what I'm trying to
do does beating me beating myself up
over this is that going to help me or
hurt me oh it's going to hurt me because
I'm gonna be more likely to slide toward
depression to think less of myself to be
less bold to take less action okay well
then we're not going to do that and I
don't think people have researched
cognitive behavioral therapy nearly
enough pattern interrupting is like
everything get better at pattern
interrupting than LeBron is at shooting
like you just have to be a ninja like
you've got to be so hardcore you've got
to know about how to do that with
yourself so if I have a negative thought
that's recurring I just tell myself nope
you can't think this anymore so and
every time it will come up because I
can't stop myself from it popping up in
my conscious mind but you absolutely can
control how the next thought goes the
next thought can be oh I'm here's what
I'll do with a negative thought that's
so rad I'm so glad this negative thought
appeared in my mind because that reminds
me to be grateful for the fact that I'm
friends with Jay Shetty or that reminds
me to be grateful the fact I have a
marriage that is so insanely cool that
like I legitimately some days have to
stop myself from just curling up in a
ball with her and just chilling all
[__] day like that is I'm super
stoked even now Jay it's so funny I had
to stop and think wait I'm going through
this list of things that I'm grateful
for what started this and I'm like oh
yeah the negative thought like that
actually just happened to me right now
so you can imagine in real life when
like you train yourself ah every time
the negative thought kicks up don't
don't sit in the emotion of the
negativity that it will bring instead
use it as a habit Loop trigger to think
about something you're grateful for and
at first it feels so awkward and it's
like the negative thought just keeps
coming back but if you're diligent and
suddenly negative thoughts become a
habaloop trigger to gratitude to
positivity to repeating your rules about
I don't allow myself to think things
that tear me down so I'm not going to
think about that even just saying that
crowds out that thought and telling
other people that hey this is what
you're doing it is unbelievable but this
is why I'm saying I'm literally just a
patchwork of all these like tools and
techniques that allow me to protect
myself from negative self-talk from
anxiety from depression I don't think
I've ever officially been in depression
but I've been super [__] close enough
to know the feeling of staring into the
void which I don't think is accurate it
feels like the void is collapsing in
around you and just everything is
meaningless and it is all utterly
hopeless and I've had just enough of a
glimpse of how hopeless that is to to
get where people are in those moments
but anxiety that I've been in the sick
of so that one I know and I've used CBT
cognitive behavioral therapy to do
interrupts on that I have a very well
developed negative voice so I have had
to use tools and techniques to stop that
I never would have become a successful
entrepreneur if I couldn't learn to
self-soothe and at one point that was
what I would have said was my secret
power that my secret power in business
was I can self-soothe faster than
anybody else
I just keep coming back to being the
learner right so your identity isn't
group a politic this politic that tribe
this tribe that it is I'm a learner
first and foremost I'm somebody that
wants to bring value to myself into the
world first and foremost so it's like
once you get to that then as people are
assaulting you
chances of them triggering a self-esteem
like in like if somebody wanted to hurt
my self-esteem they would need to call
me out on on are you really spending
time learning or have you really
improved I think you're the same that
you were two years ago like whoa like if
I really like you said felt that that
might be true then I would really that
would cause some [__] into question for
me because that's my identity right so
if somebody came to you and said
actually you're not a learner for me
where my belief is now that's so
absurdist that I would brush it off but
if they were able to like compel me to
see it the funny thing is being a
learner then kicks in again and I'm like
[__] if they're really right then here's
my chance to finally actually be a
learner but so that's why I think that
one's anti-fragile but that's where it's
like you can get yourself into trouble
if they're hitting on the very thing
that your identity and self-esteem are
tied to recognizing that brain
plasticity is real and so much of who we
are let's say it's roughly science says
it's roughly 50 that's not me making it
up that 50 is hardwired and you're not
going to
about it but 50 is insanely malleable
and
um I love this quote so great that you
can't make a racehorse out of a pig but
you can make a really fast Pig and I
thought Okay cool so maybe I'll never be
a racehorse but I can be a really fast
Pig and so whenever I'm feeling badly
about myself or something knocks me off
center I just come back to that idea of
what's useful how do you move forward
like even if you're not going to be the
greatest of all time does it benefit you
to act as if you could become the
greatest of all time if you pour
yourself into it and so I don't know
that I'll ever end up being the greatest
anything but dude acting like I can and
like really practicing and moving
through the world like I can become the
greatest has propelled me forward yeah
because acting like you can't won't get
you there yeah won't make you good
probably or great if you're constantly
obsessing over why I'm not good enough
or why I'll never become great
so acting like you can at least gives
you a much better chance of getting
somewhere than nowhere 100 it's what I
call the only belief that matters the
only belief that matters is that
if I put time and energy into getting a
new skill I actually will get better at
that thing and if you then extrapolate
that and say and skills actually have
utility they matter so knowing how to
build a business that doesn't fall or
build a business build a building that
doesn't fall down is very very useful or
build a business that doesn't fall apart
yeah that's it right so those skills
actually let you do things and so that's
become sort of my obsession is getting
people to understand you don't read a
book to check a box you don't go to
school to impress your parents you do it
because the skill that you will acquire
lets you do something in the world that
other people can't do or you wouldn't be
able to do and that has a material
impact on your life yeah I feel like you
and I are very similar in the fact that
we talk about skills a lot acquiring new
skills and I think when you have a down
phase or a breakdown phase that's when
you should think about what are the
skills I'm lacking that could benefit me
so this doesn't happen again
everybody lean in if you're listening to
this this is one of those things that
audacity is is nothing don't don't worry
about being audacious the reason people
fear being audacious is they don't want
to be me ten years from now when this
all fails right they're thinking oh man
what if this doesn't work this guy's
gonna look like an [__] and it's like
yeah maybe other people think that I'm a
total dumbass it doesn't matter and why
doesn't it matter because of Techni
because if I know how to build a house I
can build a house so my thing is I'm not
trying to posture or be cool I'm telling
you I have a set of [__] skills that
set of skills lets me do things I'm just
interested in doing those things so
whether or not I hit my timelines does
not matter I'm in the skill acquisition
game skills let you do things I'm in the
game of doing the things that my skills
allow me to do so I want to impact
people's lives maybe I'm not able to
pull it off at a film I'll find another
way or maybe it takes me a lot longer to
pull it off okay fine as long as I love
what I'm doing even when I'm failing
there's nothing to lose no because you
know on this idea of Techni along the
way you are fulfilled old with every
step on the journey for sure right every
time you upload a new you know
conversation a new episode of your show
it's a it's a it's a cool feeling to be
able to put that out there and know that
it is quote unquote you know impacting
people and it is it is and that's the
thing you know this like you you say
something into a microphone like right
now the the feeling that I have while I
know people are listening the feeling I
have is it's just us in this room
but one day somebody's going to come up
to you or me and say I heard that
podcast you guys did and it really
touched me and it changed me in this way
that's all I need so I'm not I'm not
afraid to be audacious because I know
that you're never going to exceed what
you're aiming at so you're only your
hope is to hit some percentage of what
you're aiming at so I might as well
dream massive and one it excites me and
then two I'm not afraid of the failure
so once you have that like oh it's
exciting for me to dream big and I'm
hyper conscious of you break it down in
small pieces like I'm I'm not worried
about building theme parks and all that
stuff right now what I'm doing right now
today is make a good comic put out a
good interview show that's it that's
what my life consists of stay in
business be profitable like those are
the things that I think about so I keep
my you know my goals my immediate term
goals very manageable but I make sure
that they're feeding naturally into the
Grand Vision but I don't get scared or
lost and thinking oh my God I have to do
all that nope right now today I need to
read a script I need to make sure it's
okay I need to authorize it to be drawn
that's it that's today and as long as
you're able to focus on that and get
good at that and then just always push
yourself to make your skill set better
and better and better as long as it's
leading towards that thing and you have
Clarity on where you're trying to go so
you make sure the skills you're
acquiring will actually lead you there
you'll be fine I love the mindset stuff
I love it
and it's changed my life and I love
watching somebody's eyes light up when
they get it for the first time
and so I created impact Theory
University and it is the book but in
lecture form yeah and so I've already
created that stuff now I know that I
would open up a much bigger Market if I
were to make the book so that those
people could go oh my God this stuff is
life-changing and then I say you like
the book you'll love impact Theory
University sign up today and it would
quintuple our business overnight I can
pretty much guarantee it
when you say no to something that comes
with a lot of zeros you do so because of
your value system and what I value when
I think about Tom billiona's deathbed if
I may speak in the third version I think
of myself on my deathbed I don't regret
not writing the book but I regret
tremendously not telling stories because
I think
if I want to impact 100 of the world two
percent of them can be impacted with
what we're doing right now where you say
think like this act like this it will
make your life better and two percent
will do it it's amazing now I don't mean
two percent of your audience your
audience is the two percent they have
selected themselves out they watch your
show so now some ungodly number of them
are going to go out and do it because
they belong to that very rare group the
98 though they will not and the I became
obsessed with this because working at
Quest I had 3 000 employees a thousand
of them grew up in the inner cities and
many of them could process raw data
faster than I could they were smarter
than me but they had done nothing with
their life and they were not going to do
anything with their life not that would
be remembered or anything that even they
valued right and when I boiled down to
why not it came down to they didn't have
a growth mindset they didn't have the
only belief that matters so I thought
okay well how do I get it to them so I
we create a quest University and I would
show up early I would stay late I would
tell anybody anything they want to know
about mindset building a business
whatever and two percent of them did it
and it was life-changing and it's
amazing and I still get phone calls from
people like you changed my life and it's
amazing but it's only two percent
the other 98 are either apathetic or
actively antagonistic to change so how
do you reach them entertainment the
punch line is you have to get to the
limbic system which you do through
entertainment so you tell them stories
TV movies yeah
I really believe that the way that
humans assimilate truly disruptive
information is through narrative and so
part of the way that I've changed my
life that I've opened my mind to things
like a growth mindset is through like
the matrix it's not a mistake that the
Matrix came out the year that I was
going through this like am I able to
improve myself or not the movie comes
out ends up becoming the dominant
metaphor of my life I'd love to say that
it was a lightning rod moment when I saw
it my life has changed forever it wasn't
like that but it planted a seed that I
just kept coming back to oh man it's
like Neil in The Matrix oh man you just
start piecing together like these
fascinating belief systems because a lot
of times the wisest characters and films
are often taken from like Yoda sounds
exactly like loud Zoo from the Dao
dejing so it's like basically you've got
George Lucas who's very familiar with
the Eastern philosophy talking Eastern
philosophy through this little puppet
but especially if you hear it when
you're young man like your mind is
really open to it so because of Star
Wars I end up becoming obsessed with the
dowdyjing and then because of that that
ultimately was my doorway to a growth
mindset
there are only three books you could
recommend to people that this all the
books they could read in their life this
is the hardest thing probably but if
you're like three books to live a better
life to understand the world and to just
Thrive what would you say are those
three books it's not a hard question but
it's one that I'm sure I will answer
differently every time somebody asks uh
number one is mindset by Carol dweck
that's correct it's the most important
book in the English language
uh number two is the obstacle is the way
by Ryan holiday which is an absolutely
extraordinary book and then number three
is Extreme ownership by Jocko willink
he's great and life Babin shout out to
life the first is read the book mindset
by Carol dweck period it's it's so
critical man and it just lays the
foundation for how to think
um that that's step number one step
number two is you will only ever get in
your life what you absolutely must have
your absolute obsession is it you that
says your obsessions become your
possessions that is so true and so
getting people to understand that that
level of like I must have this until it
is that like whatever it is if it's
taking care of your wife if it's doing
something rad for your mom if it's
having a beach house whatever it is
until you need that like you need oxygen
you won't get it it is going to demand
so much of you you're gonna fall so many
times there's gonna be so many obstacles
and unless it must happen in your life
one of them will make you stop like you
said you can't be for sale like if your
will can be bought it doesn't make you a
bad person man it really doesn't but if
your will can be bought you're just not
gonna get it
it's all your fault
everything every bad thing that has ever
happened to you is your fault and if
tonight a meteorite comes screaming
through the atmosphere crashes into my
bedroom and kills my wife I will know
that that is my fault
now I use the word fault to shake people
up
I know that it's making you mad right
now I know that it winds you up and you
think that I'm victim shaming and when
you get beyond that and you realize all
I'm trying to do is remind you that you
were never ever ever
a victim unless you choose to be
everything in your life will change
you're always in control even if that's
a lie and I don't care if it is even if
a meteorite coming in and killing my
wife couldn't possibly be my fault I'm
gonna own it because the second I give
away my power to somebody else I'm now
at something else's mercy and there's
some line that I can't cross that I'm no
longer in control and I refuse to do
that if I could give anybody a gift it
would be that for you to own that
completely top to bottom and to know
that every good thing that's ever
happened in your life no matter how much
it seemed like luck or coincidence that
was you you earned that you put yourself
in that position and as you move forward
life is one of two things the result you
wanted or the result you didn't want if
you don't get the result you want you
are by definition doing the wrong thing
and you must change if you get the
result that you want then you did the
right thing simple as No Gray nothing in
between that's it it's all your fault
and that's the best news possible if I
don't think that thinking something or
saying something makes it true but I
think that thinking something and saying
something makes you believe it and the
things you believe you will
unintentionally guide yourself towards I
think your belief about yourself and
what you're capable of influences your
accomplishments more than you can
imagine just because you don't put in
the extra mile of effort or whatever
that it was going to take because you
don't believe that you can or you don't
even allow yourself to dream it if you
don't dream it you're never going to
come up with a plan so it is wildly
influential in terms of what happens
just not in a mystical way in a very
like tactical you just end up either
doing or not doing the things you should
to me greatness is leaving it all out on
the field like you can't guarantee
results but you can guarantee like did
you really play to win and this is
something that
I am heartbroken for other people if
they're not playing to win and the only
reason to not play to win is if you
don't think you can win and you value
yourself for winning so my thing is
maybe I can't win I think the odds are
actually against me building the next
Disney
but it's such a fun game to play because
I only value myself for this sincere
Pursuit
so greatness to me is not about
achieving something it's about playing
all out sincerely pursuing it
so I'm chasing money for eight and a
half years my Mantra is I want to get
rich that's it I want you rich you
promise you're getting rich you always
wanted to be rich when you were young
100 right so and that didn't that wasn't
a dirty word for me I didn't understand
people who are conflicted about money I
was like it's powerful so I want to get
rich and and I just made it all about
that and so for six and a half of those
years I didn't take days off even when
we would go to London for Christmas I
had like a video camera that would allow
well this is actually slightly in the
future but a great example I would take
a video camera that would let me watch
the production line at Quest oh my God
so like that kind of obsessive like I'm
all in yeah back in the technology
company same kind of thing but I would
either be working on the tech company or
trying to start other companies at night
so we talk a lot about we had like five
or six companies fail all side hustles
yeah but it was like we just kept trying
to learn and figure this out and so
growing in that becoming better
understanding marketing helping Elevate
the company really rising up to a peer
status watching other people fall away
because they couldn't emotionally hang
in the environment and yeah then they
made me I didn't ask for a raise for
five years I was like I want to be I
want to be so valuable that they feel
gross for what they're paying me yeah
and so because I wanted the equity I
didn't want the I didn't want the salary
yeah so I was like dude I'm in this for
the equity you don't have to worry about
me Equity Equity Equity I just kept it
on their mind like hey you said that was
a possibility I want you to know that
means everything to me and that's why
I'm here and so hit the six and a half
year mark I'm 10 owner in the company
and I'm completely miserable and I've
burned out and I realized that
entrepreneurship had given given given
it was making me stronger bigger faster
and now it was beginning to take away
because I didn't care about the product
I didn't love what we were doing I
wasn't passionate I was just chasing
money and money just wasn't that
interesting at that point on paper we
both know the difference between paper
money and real money right but on paper
I was a multi-millionaire and I went in
and I said guys here's your Equity back
I'm quitting
um I'm not crossing the finish line so I
don't think I should get anything for
this and it actually ended up being like
a really cathartic moment where
we could all say what we'd been feeling
which is yet none of us are happy and so
it became well if we're going to keep
doing this if we're going to keep
building businesses because by then it
was very clear to me the struggle is
guaranteed the success is not and so I'm
gonna go do something I love and they
agreed they felt the same so we said
okay well what would we build that we
would love even if we were failing and
so for three very different reasons that
became a nutrition company and for me it
was I grew up in a morbidly obese family
my uncle essentially ate himself to
death when I was 12 years old and it was
scary and sad my mom is morbidly obese
has been my entire life my sister's
morbidly obese has been almost her
entire life my dad at one point was
morbidly obese and then lost weight but
it was like that's just where my family
lives yeah and so I was like they're
going to die far sooner than they need
to and there's this great Mother Teresa
quote nobody will ask for the many but
people will act for the one and so I
just needed to wake up every day and
think about my mom and my sister and
that was it and I thought I can show up
every day and fight for them it's not
about the money anymore I can fight for
them and look we a lot of business
Acumen went into this this was not just
we had good intentions and it built a
big business it was we understood
business right I had now been in
business for eight and a half years
grinding it out building this technology
company which was hard as hell yeah and
but now we were able to marry that and
by the way we took the tech company
through the recession and everything so
I mean it was like I'd taken some knocks
so we really understood business at this
point and so now we were going to start
something predicated entirely on value
creation that was like our Mantra
doesn't matter what's more profitable
matters what adds more value and so we
we literally were saying these things
and we also we didn't actually throw our
hands in a pile of wish we had be a
cooler story but like all but that said
and each of us needs to have fun every
day what makes you happy
the the easy answer and the most
truthful answer is time with my wife the
other answer to what makes me happy
there's really two things so time with
my wife and then the pursuit which I'll
put in all caps right so the pursuit of
whatever the pursuit of getting better
the pursuit of impacting the world the
pursuit of building something big that
that matters the pursuit maybe I never
get it I don't care about that I care
about the pursuit I care about whether
sincerely I'm actually trying to make it
happen not bullshitting yeah not just
like empty dreams but like for real I'm
actually giving myself over to this and
I spent a lot of time in the inner
cities I Big Brother for this one kid
for eight and a half years completely
changed my life and then having 1400
employees and about a thousand of which
grew up hard in the inner cities hard I
mean most of them grew up in Compton I
mean it was just some of the most
extraordinary stories I've ever heard
and I realize that those people are as
extraordinary as anybody Barack Obama
um Oprah Winfrey
um Tony Robbins like they all those same
raw materials exist in people in the
inner cities that nobody believes in
nobody think will ever go anywhere and
they won't because they don't believe in
themselves and so we were talking at our
most honest like what what are we really
driven by and I'm driven by that moment
of Awakening which I had in my own life
where I finally realized wait I can
learn new things so just because I'm not
good today doesn't mean I can't be good
tomorrow and and that filled me with so
much excitement I want to see that in
other people and I want to see what the
world looks like when other people
realize wait a second that Steve Jobs
quote that the world is made by people
no smarter than you is actually true and
so if you're believing that these people
are smarter than you because you did bad
on your SATs I'm just going to tell you
right now stop so you can develop
yourself so my obsession became that
humans are the ultimate adaptation
machine we are literally Wired from the
ground up
in order to grow and improve under
stress and pressure so it's like What's
the phrase pressure can burst pipes but
it also creates diamonds so it's like
you need the pressure and yes it can
hurt but it can also make something
amazing if you're willing to put
yourself in that situation so it's a
weird twist of fate that humans
um to in order to build the muscle you
first have to tear it right yeah so but
once you accept that that's how it works
you can do extraordinary things today we
are going to be talking all about
dealing with disappointment this is
something I know a lot about I'm sure
all of you know a lot about this but
there is a way to get over it and to
make sure that we don't waste any time
stuck in that period of disappointment
we may need to do a period of morning
but that we don't allow ourselves to get
stuck there we're able to mourn move
past it and get going again all right
first question is how do I stop myself
from beating myself up for trying to do
something that failed miserably and then
continuing to overthink everything about
what happened thank you so much for any
advice and assistance that you can
provide okay here is how to
conceptualize failure and the
disappointment that goes along with it
once you understand that what the human
animal is designed to do is learn then
you have to ask yourself if what has
made the human animal the most Apex of
apex predators the world has ever seen
the most capable of completely changing
its environment
what is it that allows them to learn
fast and the answer is failure now the
reason that failure is truly useful and
I'm not just saying that to make you or
myself feel better in fact I wish that
it wasn't the way to learn the fastest
but the reality is the reason that it
works so well is that when you fail you
trigger areas of the brain that are
focused on
memory and focus so you've got the
memory side so you're going to remember
this you've got the pain this does not
feel good I do not want to go through
this again so you've got that which
heightens your emotions which makes you
more likely to remember this thing
moving forward and then it also Narrows
your attention so you're really looking
at why did this go wrong and when you
have this sense of I never want to
repeat this and you're looking very
closely at why did this go wrong now all
of a sudden
failures because of what it does to your
brain and quite frankly because you're
in the mix you're trying things and we
learn better from doing than from
reading about it or hearing about it
so failures suddenly become the most
information Rich data stream on planet
Earth heightens your likelihood of
remembering and it focuses you in on
exactly what's the problem so now even
though failing sucks part of what makes
it valuable is that it sucks in fact it
may suck in order to make it valuable
let that sink in that nature went huh
when this happens in order for this to
be useful for this animal for this
evolutionary creature I need to make
sure
that it becomes advantageous so that as
they make mistakes assuming that they
don't get eaten by a lion I want to make
sure that they don't put themselves in
that position again and so we have to
learn from some method and the method
that gets us moving taking action trying
things feeling the pain focusing that's
going to be the thing that we're going
to get the most takeaways from so now as
you reframe what failure is failure is
not proof that you're a loser
failure is the process by which you
become better okay failure is not the
process that reveals that you're a loser
failure is a process by which you become
better that is the name of failure so
now when you fail why would you beat
yourself up over it it's the nature of
progress itself there is no way to get
better without failing it's the fastest
way it is the most effective way it is
necessary you have to do it and by the
way for you to have failed at something
you showed the courage to try it so
instead of wasting time beating yourself
up over the fact that something went
wrong we're going to say
that's the nature of progress we have to
try something it's not going to work as
well as we wanted to or I may fall flat
on my face I may outright embarrass
myself and if I let that break me I will
fail to learn the lesson
but if I do what nature is compelling me
to do
and I focus
on what went wrong why did this happen
because I never want to go through this
again
you stack enough of those what went
wrong I never want to go through this
again enough of those together
and you actually get good and
translating potential into skill set is
the name of the game and you will never
do that more efficiently than you will
through failure and mistakes so allowing
yourself to wallow in disappointment
doesn't make any sense
it's the learning process this is what
you have to do in order to get good so
there's no reason to spend a lot of time
being disappointed you brush yourself
off you pick yourself up you dust
yourself off and you get going
that's it that is the physics of
progress how do you restructure yourself
and your goals after falling off of a
designated path should goals be fixed or
malleable depending on the journey
undertaken all right
first of all everything in life is
ultimately malleable
to some extent we are not blank slades
so you can't just infinitely change
yourself but things are pretty
changeable uh as Heather Hein says we
are not a blank slate but we are the
blankest of slates and I think that's
the right way to look at it so
here's how I break it down I've got my
mission my North Star my like proper
goal the thing I'm trying to do
then I have what most people think of as
goals which are the paths so I want to
win a gold medal in the Olympics that's
a goal maybe I think I'm going to win a
gold medal in gymnastics but I find that
I can't pull it off I aged out and I
never quite got there and so I switched
over to archery I'm making this up but
this archery is actually an event where
you can be successful deeper into your
life the goal win a gold medal at the
Olympics the path swimming tennis
archery whatever and so I'm going to be
flexible on what my path is now in
business
man let me tell you I'm trying to build
the next Disney all right rad now the
path to get there I wouldn't have told
you two years ago was going to be nfts
and now nfts is a huge part of my
strategy so the goal of pulling people
out of the Matrix at scale using
storytelling that remains true and
that's why I'm building the next Disney
so that's my goal that's my mission
that's my North Star that's what I'm
trying to do now do I do that through
YouTube videos do I do that through
um nfts do I do it through getting a
show on Netflix what's it going to be I
don't really care to be honest I want to
do what is at whatever is most efficient
and effective at getting me to the goal
which is to pull people out of the
Matrix at scale through storytelling
okay so you have to learn to
differentiate between your mission and
the path to get there because you could
say that my goal is to
um let's say make in fact five years ago
I would have told you that I want to
have printed comics and comic book
stores and absolutely killing it I want
one of those Comics to be turned into a
major motion picture
um that you know ends up in theaters and
that would be one path but now I'm like
I want to do an nft forget about printed
Comics they're absolutely laughable uh
we do webcomics now but that was a whole
big transition that I wouldn't have
anticipated so that was already one
switch of some would say goal I would
say path now nfts has become a huge part
of that and so not focusing on the web
comics in isolation but the web comics
and how they can feed into the nfts or
even the nfts can feed into the comics
and then how we translate that
ultimately into let's say a series
that's going to end up on streaming okay
so a lot of the elements if you'd asked
me five years ago would have sounded
very different than they sound now so I
don't think of that as
um I would never want those to be fixed
where it's either I get printed Comics
to work or I don't it's like you get in
there and if it doesn't make sense
anymore there was a whole host of
reasons why it didn't make sense to
pursue printed Comics but I didn't know
until I failed at printed Comics so
that's another thing to think about
because by getting in there trying it
and seeing what the problems were I was
like wow why would anybody do this this
does not make sense this is absolutely
Antiquated this is the past I want to be
involved in the future
but I needed to get in there and do it
and until I did that I wasn't going to
be able to figure those things out I
couldn't think my way through that
problem I had to feel my way through
that problem so that's really the key my
North Star my mission that's pretty
static and I won't say that it never
changes because it was at when I was at
Quest it was ending metabolic disease I
moved over to impact Theory and it
became pulling people out of the Matrix
at scale using stories okay so two
different things
um was able to Pivot that but now once
I'm in there until I give up on my North
Star which something absolutely major
would have to happen meaning I would
have to believe it is no longer worthy
of pursuit now if I believe it is no
longer worthy a Pursuit then I will
change it or I'm not having fun pursuing
it whatever the case may be
but my paths my paths are just questions
of Good Sense what's working what's not
working what can I change to get there
more efficiently more effectively so
don't allow yourself to get bogged down
in a path which should be easily
discarded but don't give up easily on a
mission which should be far more firm
all right
next up
what should someone do when trying to
make a career out of passion and that
fails
the answer is what do you mean fails so
we've already covered that failure is a
key part of the process of progress so I
think a key Insight that will help is
that if you want to achieve anything
significant in your life you have to
understand that it's a game of attrition
okay it's a game of attrition what do I
mean by that most people quit
it isn't that the people that end up
winning never failed it's that they
didn't quit when they failed now why do
people quit when they fail it isn't
because they lose money
that hurts that's going to make it
harder but that's not why they quit why
they quit is it becomes emotionally
devastating and they're not able to
re-center themselves
self-soothe remind themselves why they
started right that North Star the
mission why am I doing this why do I
care about this to reorient themselves
around I care about this for a reason it
is bigger than myself this is not just
about money I'm here to add value to
help people to elevate whatever trust me
you want to attach yourself to that
because when you're doing something that
only stands to benefit you it won't have
the motivating factor that helping
yourself and other people is going to
have definitely want to help yourself
but you also want to help other people
and when you have a North star goal
mission that is that it's what I call
honorable and exciting okay it's
honorable and that it elevates not only
yourself but other people it's exciting
you're just into it whether you should
be or not as irrelevant you are into it
and it serves Humanity okay when you
have that goal that's exciting and
honorable
now all of a sudden when you quote
unquote fail you're just asking yourself
am I still into this do I still love
this is this still my passion because if
it is I'm gonna get back up and keep
going I'm not going to quit I'm not
going to allow myself to be another one
of those people that when they fail and
it hurts that they just give up don't
let that be you there is a phenomenal
quote from Winston Churchill and it goes
like this
success is the ability to go from
failure to failure to failure without a
loss of enthusiasm
now
when you can go from failure to failure
to failure without losing your passion
you're really on to something
but that's going to be up to you because
there's not going to be anybody there to
encourage you to coach you to push you
on you have to do it yourself and so
you've got to do the work of making sure
that you're really connected on a deep
emotional level to that thing that
you're pursuing
now if you do that
then that real passion and belief will
be there waiting for you
when the absolute gripping sting of
failure occurs
because at that moment you're going to
ask yourself one question we all do it
why am I doing this
and if you don't have a compelling
answer you will quit
but if you have a compelling answer
and you really are passionate about this
thing then it's just about self-soothing
and recognizing that failure is part of
the game
and so we pick ourselves up
Square ourselves off
and get moving again
and that is the only way
to succeed how do you discern
preventable mistakes from ones we simply
could not see at the time with the
knowledge we have how do we truly
appreciate and learn the lessons of
these failures okay so I wouldn't worry
so much about whether a mistake was
preventable or not because that implies
you want to know when you should beat
yourself up for the mistake and when you
shouldn't the only thing that you should
be doing when you make a mistake is
learning immediately go into learn mode
assume everything is quote unquote your
fault that all of this could have been
prevented if you had made a different
decision but
we're not going to punch ourselves in
the mouth over this we simply want to
understand okay what could I have done
differently to get a result that I
wanted because to me there is an answer
to did I make the right or wrong
decision and it goes like this if you
made the right decision it moved you
closer to your goal if you made the
wrong decision it held you neutral or
moved you away from your goal once you
understand everything just goes to that
filter now it's just Okay cool so this
was a wrong choice in that it held me
neutral or moved me away from my goal
and if either of those two things is
true it doesn't say that I'm a bad
person or I'm a loser I'm a failure it
just says what I tried didn't work now
if what I tried didn't work my next
question is what could I have done that
would have worked or at least had a
higher likelihood of working now to do
that you have to completely take
responsibility this did not work because
I made the wrong decision and it was the
wrong decision for this reason now when
you can do that and say that sentence
without feeling badly about yourself
because you're going to push back you're
not going to want it to be your fault
you're going to want it to be anybody
else's fault but when you do that you
failed to learn the lesson which means
you failed in vain which means you're
not going to get anything out of that
other than emotional distress you're
going to have to constantly try to wall
yourself off from the reality
when on the other hand you Embrace that
this really is important I have to
figure out to get to my goal I have to
figure out what to do differently so by
owning it you keep the control you
recognize that you can do something
different and then it's just all about
figuring out what that next thing is so
don't worry about
um
whether you should have known better or
any of that because if you fail even if
you couldn't have known better how was
that helpful you just need to figure out
cool what can I do next time
what can I do next time how do I start
again more intelligently that should be
the only question on your lips
how do you deal with the time lost from
failure especially when you have nothing
to show for that time for example I just
got rejected from a job that would have
changed my life but now I have to spend
upwards of three to five years just to
get to that level of income experience
somewhere else
okay
that's not true so right now the only
path you see before you makes it seem
like it's going to require you three to
five years just to get to that level of
income experience but let's remember we
had that opportunity present itself once
before who says it's not going to
present itself again tomorrow now the
fact that we didn't get that role
that's what we have to figure out why
not and what can we do next time to
ensure that we do there's a great quote
I forget who it's by forgive me but it
goes this is a paraphrase but it goes
like this luck is like a bus
and another bus is going to come five
minutes later the question is do you
have the fare to get on the bus
that [__] is dope once you understand
that luck favors the prepared meaning
that the people who are quote unquote
lucky are the ones that actually have
the skill set to take advantage of that
luck and that's why the awesome way to
think about it is like a bus there's
going to be another one coming all the
time they're constantly coming but if
you can never get on one because you
don't have the skill set to take
advantage then you're never going to be
quote unquote lucky even though all of
those opportunities have presented
themselves so this is really a question
of skill set now I promise you if you
gave me three to five years and pointed
me at whatever it is you're trying to do
I Would by Leaps and Bounds I'm going to
try to get there in six months so if we
really think it's going to take five
years I'm going to try to get that good
at that thing in six months and I will
just tell you I have a history of being
able to pull that off now
why am I better
am I smarter no I am definitely not
remember I'm the guy whose mother
quietly assumed I was going to fail my
best friend said I just assumed you were
going to marshmallow your way through
life my now father-in-law when I asked
for his Blessing to marry his daughter
he said no these were not people that
misidentified me they had accurately
identified me but what they didn't
factor in is that I could change
and so I just set about turning my
potential into actual skill sets so
instead of being somebody with a lot of
potential like we all are I became a
person with a lot of skill set and that
skill set I have leveraged to do
extraordinary things with my life but it
was a lot of [__] hard work around
one making massive demands of myself so
not allowing myself to say oh my God
this is going to take three to five
years [__] that it might take the
average person who's not willing to do
what I'm willing to do three to five
years I'm gonna spend way more time and
I'm gonna be constantly owning
everything in my life so that I can get
better I can try different things new
things I'm gonna stare nakedly at my
inadequacies and figure out why did I
get rejected I will ask hey guys out of
curiosity and trust me I have thick skin
it would really be powerful to me and my
career
if you could tell me
what made you choose somebody else what
was it about me and I can take anything
if I don't seem educated enough
knowledgeable enough I'm not uh I don't
speak fast enough I'm not funny enough
whatever I just want to know the truth
you hated my shoes I just want to know
the truth and you'll be surprised people
will actually give you an answer may not
be the full totally unfiltered answer
but they'll usually give you some pretty
useful information if you make it clear
that that's what you want you don't want
them to pull punches and that this is
really something designed to help you
get better
and that's the key and if you can make
them see that boom you're Off to the
Races but in all of this you've got to
really want it you gotta really want it
and you have to be willing to fail over
and over and over because success is
going from failure to failure to failure
without a loss of enthusiasm
and there it is that's how we do it
that's how we avoid wallowing and
disappointment that's how we put
ourselves back together and get going
and learn and learn at a supercharged
rate failure is your greatest teacher
but you have to be willing to admit
you've made a mistake
and that's it if you can do that oh my
God the universe will open up to you
never retreat
never explain
get it done and let them howl
and that's the point get it done do the
thing
the accomplishment is what you're after
the performance is your opportunity
it doesn't matter what other people
think it doesn't matter if they want you
to win it doesn't matter if they
actively want you to lose what matters
is building that set of skills becoming
capable of doing the thing and in doing
the thing you will Silence the Critics
it's the man in the arena who knows that
he's showing up with the abilities that
he has to do battle the question is will
you prepare the question is will you do
the work the question is will you be
able to get the thing done and everybody
spends their time focused on what other
people think instead of realizing the
only thing that matters is how good you
get
right now I want everybody listening to
this the only thing that matters is how
good you get that's the point that's the
purpose of all of this don't [__]
worry about what people think
just get so good that you can't be
denied get so good that you can't be
stopped get so good that your
performance speaks for itself if you get
that good
my friends you and you alone control
your life
if you are honest with yourself about
where you are
and you know exactly where you want to
go
you can go anywhere
[Music]
as Jim Rohn said without a sense of
urgency desire loses its value
what do you want badly enough
to suffer for what price are you willing
to pay to become the person that you
want to become
when you do that when you have the
skills
no one and nothing can stop you
really think about that for a second
there is a level of ability a level of
skill set where you can get so good at
something no matter how much people hate
you no matter how much they want to
bring you down no matter how actively
they come for you you can stand before
them and say I will not fall
because you can outperform
it's not about convincing it's not about
politicking it's about getting better
and when you understand that that is
what the human animal is capable of when
you understand that that's what you're
capable of
everything in your life changes it just
becomes a simple choice
[Music]
what do you want that badly that you're
going to turn that one into a knee that
you're going to do the work that you're
going to show up nights weekends you're
going to put in the work when other
people are out partying all you can
think about is becoming so good
that they can't stop you
becoming so good they can't stop you
[Music]
that's the greatest joy you're ever
going to experience in life is being
truly and uniquely your self
[Music]
through a cruel twist of fate the only
way for a human to really develop
themselves and to become what they're
capable of becoming is through suffering
it's by pushing yourself
foreign
erson said unless you try something
beyond what you've already mastered you
will never grow
[Music]
but to push yourself beyond what you've
already mastered is to really Embrace
discomfort it's to push yourself to the
edges of what you can take it's to go
beyond the physical emotional and
intellectual limits
[Music]
it's about redefining who you are it's
about redefining what you can stand it's
about redefining your breaking point and
literally becoming capable of more but
that process through that twist of fate
requires us to put ourselves in
tremendous stress and pressure but if
you can do that if you can find a way to
step to that edge to look over the abyss
and to push yourself farther into the
unknown into a realm of danger if you
can do that
foreign
[Music]
like everyone else who seeks comfort
if you can push yourself past pain
then you can become something more than
other people but your life will
ultimately be defined by what you do
[Music]
not by what you think not by what you
want what you actually do
and as Leonardo da Vinci said I have
been impressed with the urgency of doing
knowing is not enough we must apply
being willing is not enough we must do
and that's got to be The Guiding Light
of your life if you want to find out
what you can do if you want to impact
people if you want to help if you want
to touch lives all the proclamations
that people make if you actually want to
do that and not just be talking
you've got to push yourself you've got
to make demands you've got to hold
yourself to a standard that other people
think is crazy you've got to become
stronger you've got to become more
capable
[Music]
because when you get to that point when
you are stronger when you're more
capable then you're actually able to
execute against the things that you want
to do you're able to help people you're
able to push yourself you're able to
become something more
[Music]
foreign
of becoming is an active process and it
is an active process of discomfort pain
pushing suffering and growth it's Beauty
it's wonderment it's hurt it's anguish
it's all of it rolled together but at
the end of the day it's your control
it's your willingness it's your why it's
knowing why you're pushing yourself
that's going to determine whether or not
you push beyond what other people think
is possible
foreign
[Music]
ty not knowing if you're going to
succeed or fail not knowing if you're
going to live or die
it's in that moment that you realize who
you really are
we've all had days that go wrong
where despite your best efforts
everything crumbles and as you near the
end of that day you realize that this
was a lost day nothing came together you
weren't able to do what you told
yourself you were going to do at the
beginning of the day
but as Eleanor Roosevelt said with a new
day comes new strength and new thoughts
but that's up to you you control what
you think you don't have to let your
thoughts run away with you you've got to
take that moment to decide that you're
going to think those new thoughts to let
it be a rebirth to let it rejuvenate you
[Music]
and you can't live in the past you can't
let the noise of what didn't work you
can't let the noise of the ways that you
fail and the things that went wrong you
can't let that noise drown out the
signal of your life you can't let it
become the only thing that you hear you
can't let it begin to shape the actual
structures of your mind to overly focus
on the things that went wrong and so you
have to make that choice every day to
decide that today is a new day to decide
that you're going to have new thoughts
to decide that you're going to see
potential in this new day
[Music]
foreign
I want greatness for you
and I'm willing to bet that everyone in
your life that loves you wants the same
thing they want to see you make your
dreams come true they hunger for it to
see you win the way that you hunger for
it yourself
but what they know that you may not yet
be willing to accept
is that as Robin drawnath tagore said
you can't cross the sea merely by
standing and staring at the water
[Music]
if you're gonna make those things come
true in your life if you're going to
make that Vision that you have a reality
you've ultimately got to go out into the
cold and unforgiving water you've got to
be willing to face the swells you've got
to be willing to face the most
terrifying thing of all
the unknown
[Applause]
[Music]
it isn't that the sea is dangerous that
scares people it's that you can't see
what's beneath the surface and that is
going to be the challenge that you're
going to have to face that is going to
have to be the fear that you stare
directly into the eye is the truth is
you don't know what you're capable of
the truth is you don't know if you're
going to succeed the absolute truth is
you may fail
[Applause]
[Music]
you may get swallowed by the darkness
but at the end of the day that's going
to be your choice because whether or not
you fail does not mean you have to be
consumed by that failure you can get
back up and keep going but that is a
choice you have to make that's the
fortitude you have to develop within and
it is a development process it is
something that you do
[Music]
you choose to be stronger than the sea
you choose to be stronger than the
unknown and you choose to be brave
enough to go out despite the unknown and
try to conquer something to try to build
something in your life to do the things
that other people think cannot be done
it is in facing that fear that you win
the battle understand finding the island
making it to the new world that's not
the [__] point
[Music]
foreign
[Applause]
is setting out the point is being
willing to get an A dinghy and to go off
into the sea the point is being willing
to face the challenge
if you can do that regardless of what
comes you've already won because you've
proven something to yourself
that you're willing to try
the truth will set you free but first it
will piss you off
foreign
the reality is if you want to achieve
something great in your life you've got
to be willing to accept who you really
are right now you've got to know exactly
what you're good at and what you're not
and the reason that the truth is going
to piss you off is it's going to hurt
it's going to hurt to acknowledge that
you're not yet who you want to be it's
going to hurt to know that you're not
yet capable of the things that you want
to be capable of and it's really going
to hurt
to know that the things that people say
behind your back the things that they
say to hurt you
that they're actually true
that they're right they have a point you
aren't good at that thing you aren't as
good as you could be you did embarrass
yourself you have fallen down all of
those things are almost certainly true
but when you can look at those things
when you can stare nakedly at your
inadequacies when you can really stop
and not protect yourself with ego but
protect yourself by knowing that you're
going to learn from where you failed
you're going to learn from the places
you've fallen down you're going to learn
your inadequacies so that you can build
something new and as Michio Kaku says
all great ideas come from a picture
you've got to know what you want you've
got to know what that thing is that
you're building towards you've got to
know exactly who you're trying to become
and once you have that Crystal Clear
Vision of who you want to be it is far
easier to acknowledge who you really are
so you've got to start with that picture
you've got to accept the reality pain
and all but you've got to have that
picture you've got to know where you're
going you've got to know what the skills
are that you need to build in order to
get there and once you do that once you
have that picture and that picture is
your obsession it's the thing that you
think about you dream about you put it
up on your wall you tattoo it in your
mind you know exactly
who you're trying to become
[Music]
honest with yourself about where you are
and you know exactly where you want to
go
you can go anywhere
knowledge isn't power used knowledge is
power putting that to use to actually do
something
understanding it well enough to create
from that thing that's the end goal so
don't worry about what other people
think don't worry about what other books
other people have read don't worry if
you ever make it to the last page of
anything
simply ask yourself do I understand what
I need to understand to build the life I
want to build to bring to this world the
things that I want to bring
foreign
however counter-intuitive however weird
it doesn't matter
if it's a moment of Beauty for you and
you understand how to build it build it
that's the greatest joy you're ever
going to experience in life is being
truly and uniquely your self
But first you have to do the work to
understand who you really are
do that work
and as brene brown said you can choose
courage or you can choose comfort
but you can't choose both
so as you look out at what you want to
do and it scares you
in that moment you've got a choice it's
not about not having fear it's about
rising up in the face of it it's about
accepting that this is going to be hard
it's about accepting that you might fail
it's about accepting that right now you
really aren't good enough
[Music]
foreign
not good enough to do what you want to
do but you can become good enough and if
you make that choice if you step out
into the unknown if you wade into the
water if you go with everything you've
got regardless of whether or not you
could fail if you do that
then you've got proof
you know that you have value because
you're willing to take that chance
and the willingness to take the chance
is courage itself
the only thing that you should demand of
yourself is courage
if you don't stop
you can't be beaten
if you're not going in the right
direction in your life and you want an
action plan that you can use it's going
to change everything in your life it
goes like this
when you want success that badly you
will find a way that's what I always
tell people success is a game of problem
solving